Hello everyone. Welcome to a new episode of The
Dissenter. I'm your host, as always, Ricard Lops, and
today I'm joined by Doctors Neil Herbert and John
Cockburn. Uh, Doctor Herbert is assistant professor of theater
in the department of visual and Performing Arts at
Grambling State University, and Dr. Cockburn is professor of
philosophy and department chair in the Department of Philosophy
and religious studies at Louisiana State University. And today
we're going to talk about their book KFab Nation
Professional Wrestling, Donald Trump and the New Cynicism. So
Dr. Herbert, Dr. Cockburn, welcome to the show. It's
a huge pleasure to everyone.
Oh, there it is book KFve Nation in reverse,
sadly, but
By the way, is that Steve Austin on the
cover? Oh, OK, OK.
We did not come up with that idea. Um,
ACTUALLY, the press just gave us that, and I'm
looking at it, I'm like, wait, that's Steve Austin.
13, I think. We could get him, so I'm
happy about that. So they
must have found a photo that's that the rights
were available to, but yeah, that's, that's definitely Stone
Cold Steve Austin on the cover. So that's,
well, well, that, that's awesome. I mean, every wrestling
fan, I mean, it will catch their attention for
sure, yeah. OK, so let me ask, let me
start by asking you, uh, how did you come
up with this idea, uh, of making a connection
between WWE and particularly WWE from the attitude era
and Donald Trump.
So, um, actually, we, so John and I have
been talking about these ideas since 2003. Uh, THERE'S
a, in the introduction or the, the, the preface
to our book, we talk about Uh, a smoky
apartment on Chime Street with, uh, where someone asked,
have y'all ever seen a tape of Japanese pro
wrestling? That was me when I was in, uh,
the MA program at LSU in philosophy, and I
had John and our deceased, uh, uh friend Ian
Crystal had come over one day. DAY after class,
just cause my apartment was right off campus. So
students and grad students and professors would just drop
by whenever they'd get bored, um, for that period
of time. So, um, we started talking about that
when I got John into, um, Japanese and Mexican
professional wrestling. And then we sort of incorporated into
our weekly watching of wrestling. So, when we started
in 2003, I had been watching for 10 years
at that point, since 1993. Um, MY dad was
a huge boxing fan, and I found boxing kind
of boring because they only punched, right? Like, I,
I was young, I didn't understand the nuances of
boxing, so I, one day I saw wrestling. And
my dad's like, that's fake. So of course I
wanted to watch it cause my dad said it
was fake. I was like, well, it's probably good
then, um, if it's fake, cause they can control
what happens, and uh I was indeed uh right.
So I wanted to get my first pay per
view, which was SummerSlam 1993 with uh Lex Luger
on the Lex Express versus Yokozuna, and my mom
decided she was gonna watch wrestling, and if she
liked it, I could get the pay per view.
And the first time she ever watched, she watched
Monday Night Raw. The main event was Money Incorporated
versus uh the Steiner Brothers in a cage match.
And the only detail I remember is that the
Million Dollar Man, Ted DiBiase, got his trunks pulled
down and he was wearing a thong, and my
mom thought he had a nice butt. So she
decided because of that, I could watch wrestling and
get the pay per view. And that's kind of
the, the Origin story of me as a pro
wrestling fan, that's how John got into it. And,
you know, we just have been watching, um, throughout
all that time. Like, I would, uh, there's another
thing in our book called the, uh, that where
we thank the true wrestling fans, and that's a
text thread that we've maintained for 1015 years of
just all people that talk about wrestling that were
in our friend group, and we still have it
going to this day. So, You know, I was
in a philosophy program with John, and then when
I got my PhD in theater history, I wanted
to be a classicist. I wanted to focus on
Greek tragedy, and my entire committee at my first
year review sat me down and said, no. Um,
THEY'RE like, you're gonna write about wrestling cause you
like that, and we think it's very marketable. So,
John was on my committee as, as, uh, an
outside reader, um, and I produced a book that
kind of combined performance studies with My fandom and
uh turned that into my dissertation, which was called
uh Professional Wrestling, Local Performance Practice or Local Performance,
uh, Local Performance History, Global Performance Practice. Uh, IT'S
been a while. And, um, You know, I, I
decided not to fully book that, and, uh, just
cause I, I, I, I don't know why I
didn't feel like booking that just yet, and John
and I started co-writing something around the same time
when I was in grad school, so we started
writing what became the book. In 2012, does that
sound right?
I think 2011 we presented at the ASTR in
Dallas. That was the first actually,
wait, I was directing how I learned to drive
when that happened, so I think that was fall
2013. OK. When we went to Dallas and uh
so that was the first version. We let it
sit for a couple of years. Uh, WE had
actually got it admitted to, we've gotten the paper
we wrote, uh, accepted for a pro wrestling anthology
that we eventually quote in what would become our
book, but because we were doing mostly philosophy at
that time, that the book wanted a radical revision,
and I was in the process of trying to
finish my dissertation while being a full-time high school
teacher. So, I just couldn't get that level of
notes done. John was also committed to another project,
so we pulled that paper, and then we resubmitted
it once I got um Once I was working
for a charter school, I sold out and made
a lot more money in the, uh, in the
alternative American education system. Uh, WHICH for any Americans
that are watching it, that charter schools pay more,
but they're also, you know, ethically suspect. Um, BUT
I had the money to do another conference, so,
and, uh, that year, uh, the American Society of
Theater Researchers conference was in New Orleans. So John
and I just drove down to New Orleans and
presented it as part of a working group convened
by Shannon Walsh, who is a professor at LSU
on performance and sports. And it just so happens
that there was a member of the, was it
Vanderbilt Press, had scoured our uh program notes, like
the all of the papers, and he he cold
emailed us and said, I wanna hear about your
paper and possibly turn it into a book. So,
um, he, he quit the press though. So our
book was orphaned at Vanderbilt, and we rewrote it
a couple of times. And in the end, we
decided to walk away from Vanderbilt just because they
wanted the book to become something that I felt
there was already a competitor on the market for.
They wanted more of a history of pro wrestling.
You know, you know, it's interesting, Neil, is that,
uh, first, Neil, if you become a supervillain, everyone
has your backstory now. So, uh, uh, yeah, yeah,
yeah. Um, uh, SO I'll give you a little
bit of my backstory. I, I started watching wrestling
and, um, When I was a kid, I sort
of barely remember it because it was on local
access in Montgomery, Alabama. And we absolutely believe they're
real, but at 1.2 of the wrestlers, Neil and
I figured out who these were at one point,
we saw them in a car together and they
were like, enemies. They broke Kfabe and that caused
like this is so embarrassing. I was in high
school and still believed it was the outcomes were
not in 1986 in Montgomery, Alabama, um, kind of
like a Danny McBride, uh, reality, um, and so
that was, and then with Neil, I rekindled my,
my love of it. But the interesting thing that
Neil just said is like this, this is a
broader point, academia. It's, it's actually people encourage it
to display work, but it's very hard to do
because most presses. Uh, THEY have an editor that
maintains a list, the list isn't just in terms
of philosophy or performance studies. It'll be one area
of philosophy, just analytic philosophy of mind or just
continental political philosophy. It's so like, um, trying to,
this is, this, I, I forgot that happened to
us with the first paper, like in 2014 or
whatever, where we were told like that, that first
paper is, uh, made a really interesting philosophical point
that Neil and I discovered that they're two separate
ontologies of wrestling. Mhm. So an ontology, among other
things, tells you the identity conditions of things. So,
if you're a wrestling fan, you talk about one
of the key terms is the match. And Neil
was doing aesthetics and philosophy, and we, we put
this together, um. The, the match is sometimes a
performance kind and sometimes a particular performance. These are
different types of artwork. So like a, a musical
work can be multiply instantiated. But the performance itself
isn't. It's, it's a singular spread out over space-time,
vaguely. Well, in wrestling, in the storyline, the match
is a performance. Mhm. But outside of the storyline,
if you're talking about the industry, it's a performance
kind, because you, uh, practice the match if it's
WWE in a dark show before you perform it.
And for people that don't remember the, the, back
in the day, the, the way it would work
is, in the buildup to a pay per view,
they would have most of the matches that were
gonna be at the pay per view, rehearsing spots
on house shows. So, if, if that, if that
SummerSlam, you were gonna see The Undertaker and Kurt
Angle, there's a strong chance in the 3 weeks
building up to that pay per view, if you
go to a house show, you would see a
Kurt Angle versus. Taker match, but it would not
be the match from the pay per view. It
would,
can you talk about before WWE, because because I
didn't know this before you. This is,
oh yeah, yeah, yeah, OK, yeah, yeah. So this
is a point in the book.
It's amazing to me that like, this is a
cool one.
So if you look at Mick Foley's book, he
talks about this. That's where I got this idea
from. That's Have a Nice Day, his first autobiography,
is that, um, in certain territories where you went
from town to town, you might lose your Title
or lose a big grudge match, 5 nights in
a row, and each city thinks they got the
match. So, Mick Foley tells a story about how
he had to break the news to some of
his close friends in, I think it was Tennessee
or Texas that he was, he had to leave
after he lost the loser leaves town match. And
one of the friends was like, Mick, we, we
went to a, a nearby town 3 days ago
and we saw the match, we already knew you
were losing. Um, SO, and, and that would happen
with, like, in Mid-South and Ric Flair, because in
Mid-South, which is what I wrote my dissertation on
using Louisiana history, I, I was the historian who
found a way to get a PhD in history
by talking about 9 years. Um, IT'S very elegant,
uh, elegant bit of work on my part. But,
um, what would happen is in Mid-South, they would
do different tapes. The tapes would have to be
bicycled out, is what they called it. So, one
town would get 1 week of television while another
town over would be a week ahead of. That,
then another town would be 2 weeks ahead. So
they had to keep track of which episode of
TV was airing in each area. So when they
did their local shows, they would deliver the right
matches. And, um, you know, you could see in
each of, each, each town thought they were getting
the match, even though, you know, in every city,
they've seen Ric Flair lose his US championship for
the last week, and everyone would be convinced that
was the match, um, because they were, you know,
Each time in within the logic of KAve, that
was the match you saw, the, the live match
in your town was the real match, but if
you actually know the backstory, you know that, hey,
he's lost this title 5 times, like, first in,
uh, Charlottesville, then in this town, then in this
town, then in this town, and you know,
so keep going. Yeah, so, so we've written up
a, a, a paper on like the ontology and
metaphysics of wrestling that nobody much wanted to publish,
and we're like, OK, Neil, finish your dissertation, get
a job, and we'll, you know, do, do your
more historiography stuff, then we'll come back to it.
But then like 2015 happens and Trump comes out
and starts giving these, um, and we, we kind
of got obsessed with Trump's speeches. Because we, we,
we view them as wrestling promos. They're totally wrestling
promos that became the, the, uh, the discussion that
led to the, the actual book, which we're able
to, and so, so, so prior to Trump, we
had, um, we had started to think about Neil
Kafey, but there's his, uh, the first broad usage
of that is Josie Reisman. Uh, HER book The
Ringmaster, but a few years ago, uh, uh, a
paper,
I wanna say we used it in 2015 or
2016, so yeah,
it was on the web elsewhere.
It's convergent evolution, right? Like, like she of all
dies, we evolve dies. Um,
SO we had like a, a, uh, just quick,
we, we had like, we realized that like when
we're doing our metaphysics, we had an aesthetic point,
a philosophy of art point that the idea of
like, um, um, aesthetic distance becomes much more interesting
and, and with Neo Cafabe. So we have a,
we have an architect that we have, we have
fan types. So the first one is just the
fan, or no, the southern fan. Yeah, and I
was a Southern fan and through until like maybe
1986, I started to doubt, um, but you still
will go to a BW 3, and sometimes it's
so lovely when this happened. A guy comes up
to you and says like, so when CM Punk
was like shaving people's heads and they joined the
Straight Edge Army, 2011, I would run into people
like smoking cigarettes saying like, uh. I can't do
a southern accent. Can you do it? Oh, the
guy was trying to
let me tell you something about CM Punk. If
he tries to take me out the audience in
front of my kids, that's not gonna happen. Uh,
LIKE this dude believed, and it was awesome because
when you're in a show like that, it's fun
to be around people who believe.
Yeah, yeah, I said
the last time I saw local pro wrestling, by
the way, uh, the local promotion up here is
called Bayou Independent Wrestling. I was cheering for a
bad guy. Because in Baton Rouge's independent wrestling, which
John and I went to, he was their big,
good guy, the, the Cajun shoots, Cajun strong style,
something like that. So I was cheering him cause
I'd seen him before, and a child ran up
to me and punched me in back of the
head, um, because I was cheering for a bad
guy and his mom was mortified. I was like,
I'm so sorry. And I was like, look, he's,
you know, your, your child's like 3. IT didn't
hurt. It's kind of funny, but, but, uh,
but we, we've seen some like, uh, people like
that is so much
we've seen some moms that are like gonna punch
you in the head too, though.
Yeah, right, when, when the adults believe too, oh,
it's so great. It's
so happy. But, um, so that's a fan, uh,
that's a Southern fan. Then there's the fan, and
this isn't that different from like a movie. You,
you have some aesthetic distance, but you sort of
like, uh, what's it called, the suppression of, um.
Oh jeez, you know, what's the suspension
of disbelief, suspension
of disbelief, suspend disbelief, and that's the way it
works in art, um, oh, but you, before that,
you have the critic, and we named this eternal
critic after our, our, our friend Dan Crystal, because
when I watched with him, he'd always just say
that's so fake. That's so fake when he was
a kid, he used to go to the Montreal
Superdome with his father or whatever the normal dorm's
called Montreal and watch, uh, Jean Ferret, uh, uh,
Andre the Giant. Yeah, and, and so Ian still
loved Andre the Giant, uh, but he wasn't big
on wrestling. So the in terminal critic is like,
just that's fake, that's fake. OK, you could do
that with a movie. Like real pirates didn't do
that, but you like you're kind of missing the
point.
Pirates of the Caribbean is not accurate.
Yeah, then you got the fan who distances. But
what we discovered, and this is what we started
thinking about now, OK, Fabe, is to understand the
storylines in wrestling now, you have to simultaneously trace
the supposed real world. Because when the, when the
real world and the story curated around the real
world, because it's not so real after all, becomes
more compelling, um, they will inconsistently change the storylines
to bring the real world in. And the only
way the fan like has to do a lot
of cognitive damage to themselves for the southern fan
to keep going because it'll just be inconsistent. We
can talk about examples of this as we go
along. But then like, so we started to see
Trump not just Kfabe, but we'll, we'll talk about
this later. I, I think we should move on
from uh, this is the origin story, but Neil
Kafabe too. So that, that's sort of how the,
the, the book came about. Um,
YOU
know,
you, you know, it's funny because back in 2016
during the, er, I mean just before the elections,
I had a friend who was really far left
and he really opposed, er, US foreign policy, particularly
in the Middle East. WAS like, oh my God,
I hate Hillary Clinton because she's going to do
the same things that the previous presidents were already
doing, Obama and Bush and so on. So I
prefer that Trump wins, and I think he's not
going to do the same. And and I was
like, hey. Take it easy, take it easy
because you know wrestling,
yeah, yeah, go, go, go back to 2007 and
watch Donald Trump's promos, uh, up till WrestleMania 23
and perhaps we'll, you will know, or you will
learn what I'm talking about because it's getting a
promo there. Come on.
Yeah, it's, it's. I don't know, 2016 was when
a lot of people got radicalized, uh, that I
know. Um, BUT, you know, we also have to
talk about this, and we'll talk about it later,
is the role in which the Democratic Party played
in the rise of Trump. You know, the Hillary
Clinton campaign, they pushed him to win. They They
were like, oh, we're gonna destroy him. And it's
like, I don't know, you, you, you kind of
set us up for this. Like, I, I think
Little Marco and the others would have probably been
much easier to beat than an anti-establishment figure against,
you know, the embodiment of democratic liberalism. But
this is, this gets to sort of the key
behind a lot of the book because there's, there's
two incompatible stories you could tell about Trump. And
we think they go through with KFB and you
know KF. So, so one thing he did that
was like really worked, like he and Bernie. There
are a few things that most American voters suspected
or believed that no one would say on those
debate stages. The two biggest things, and I have
to be really clear, if you watch the 2015
debates, Trump ran as economically populist, economically left wing,
but socially conservative. Most Americans tend to be slightly
economically left wing and slightly socially conservative, but whenever
the party system offers up a moderate third way,
they reverse those polarities. So moderates are always presented
as running against the new parties, but the moderate
is always like what people hate about both parties
because they end up being very libertarian socially and
very conservative, uh, economically. Anyway, so Trump, like he
railed against the, um, the American foreign policy and
the forever wars with the war on terror. His
LAG says the war of terror, uh, the, no,
it's Borat that says the war of terror. Um,
HE ran against that. He ran against, uh, Obamacare,
but he didn't run against it from a libertarian
perspective. He was gonna provide much better healthcare. He
ran against offshoring jobs and It was only like,
I remember like watchers, there was late in the
campaign where he called Bernie a socialist to differentiate
itself from Bernie, but that actually surprised a lot
of people because his economic policies up to that
point have been determinate for Bernie. So one theory
of Trump. Is that like uh he actually was
hitting the sweet spot of American politics at the
time, which neither the parties nor the third white
people do. But, and that he, he got superpowers
that people thought he was honest, because he said
a few important truths that people believed, so they
went along with him. Neil and I thought that
and that's why we thought like this guy might
actually win once Bernie was out of the, you
know, uh, I mean,
everyone,
we don't bet on our academic expertise, so we,
we've never won any bets on these, but yeah,
that's the thing. I remember everyone I talked to
that knew politics was like, oh, yeah, if Clinton
runs, she's losing. Um, LIKE, people were like, Bernie's,
Bernie will probably lose too, but he's got a
better shot, was, was what a lot of the
people I know. I, people got very angry with
me. Too, when we would say things like that,
like, but, but, but Trumpers in political science get
very angry with me when I said that. It's
like I'm, I'm sorry.
Um, WHEN, when, when, um, the other thing that
Trump did that's more wrestling-centric and it's wrestling better
is that the core truth he told that Bernie
didn't, is that like, this is all fake. You
know, why do you, why do you give all
this is a really famous line. You gave money
to Hillary. You get, why did I give her
money? Because she does what I said. Like, you
know, like, like
I give money to everybody because that's what he
said that it's, that it's phony, and that is
the OK babe right there. And then, so how
does Trump stay possible? He didn't do any of
the economic populist stuff that he said he was
going to do. Why do these people still, uh,
why does he have, you know, a third of
the country still supports him? Um, YOU know, we,
we go into this in the book. Biden did
much more of the things Trump said he was
going to do, um, for better and worse, um,
probably it was a terrible idea to maintain the
tariffs against China during a period of high inflation.
Yeah, that probably cost him the, you know, um.
But things with restoring manufacturing, you know, I don't
know if you remember Trump had manufacturing week every
week and it never came to pass. So how
can he not do any of that stuff? What's
really going on here? And that's where I think
the, the, the lens of Neil Kafabe. This is
all a joke. It's all fake. You're in on
the con with me because we both see that
it's fake. What's left of politics at that time?
I can make people you hate really miserable. It's,
and that's, that's wrestling. You know, it's, it's,
you watch the heel, get, you watch the people
you dislike get humiliated. Their pants get pulled down
in the cage just like my mom saw, and
people are happy.
Trump is great at owning the limbs. Yeah, but
that's that might be the only thing we're getting
way ahead of ourselves.
Sorry, yeah, sorry,
no, no, no, no, yeah, yeah, yeah, I was
going to say, uh, I mean, but how old
is the connection between Donald Trump and professional wrestling,
because I mean, uh, I, I was born in
1990 and I only started watching wrestling in 2006,
so everything that came before that. I watch, I
watched most of it from the WWE slash WWF
mainly, but it was after the fact. So I
remember, for example, that I hope I'm getting the
facts right here, but I think that WrestleMania 4
and WrestleMania 5 were held at Trump Plaza,
right? So actually, WrestleMania 4 was billed as being
held at Trump 1988 in, in, yeah, 1988. And
but it was actually held in the Atlantic City
Convention Center, but they said it was Trump Plaza.
And then, uh, Trump will appear on WWEE programming
throughout the 2000s, but when he really gets involved
was the 2007 Battle of the billionaires when he
and Vince put their, so the, for people that
aren't familiar with this, which I'm assuming will be
a lot of people because we all watch wrestling,
but I'm assuming you, the viewer, are probably here
for the philosophy content. Um, WHAT happened was there,
there, there was a match, and Vince McMahon chose
a wrestler to be his proxy, and Donald Trump
chose, uh, Donald Trump chose a good guy wrestler
to be his proxy. And the winner of that
match at WrestleMania would, would cause their billionaire to
shave his head. So, of course, the draw for
that WrestleMania is, is the guy from The Apprentice
gonna shave his head? Head on TV, which, of
course, he was never gonna do, right? Like the,
the, Vince McMahon was the bad guy. So, obviously,
Vince McMahon's wrestler was gonna lose, and then Vince
would get his head shaved, and, and Trump was
the good billionaire versus Vince, the bad billionaire. Um,
AND then, a couple of years later, they started
doing this, like, guest host thing on Monday Night
Raw, and they A storyline where Donald Trump buys
WWE from Vince McMahon, which actually causes the stock
to get really weird because they send out a
press release, so people aren't aware that it's just
a story. So then they have to clarify like,
oh yeah, this isn't real, blah blah blah blah
blah. But 2009, that was 2009, yeah, and then,
so then Trump was the good billionaire again, and
he was 20 years. Yeah, so he would give
us episodes of Raw with no commercials because he
spent his own money to give us this gift.
Just like in the White House, Donald Trump doesn't
take a single cent of his presidential salary. He
gives that back to the government so that they
can spend it on things we need, right? Never
mind that he gets a billion dollars in bribes
and jets and things like that. But, but the
same story. That we get from Trump the politician
we got from Trump the character
it's so uncanny to watch them they're on YouTube,
some of the promos he got. It's, it's so
uncanny. Like he's doing it'll be the greatest thing
ever. He's
gonna be the greatest matchup ever.
That McMahon is evil, awful, and it's gonna be
defeated, and it's gonna be the best thing in
the world. And it's, it's, it's just indistinguishable from
like what he started doing in 2015 to, to
crowds, um.
OK, OK, OK, but that was the period of
time where Trump more directly participated in wrestling, right?
But how about his relationship with Vince McMahon? I
mean, how old is it and uh how did
it develop exactly? All right,
John, you take that one.
Yeah, so I, I've heard this from a few
people who Neil has said no people, but, uh,
but, but Josie Reisman talks about it, so this
isn't just hearsay, it's, it's, it's in her book.
Um, SO it's widely reported, there's two people in
the world that Donald Trump, when he's on the
phone with him, he sends everybody out of the
room. One is Vladimir Putin. And the other is
that's bad. So that's, and so we, there's theories
about why these two people, he, he does it
and people don't understand it, um. The, the relationship
is personal, it's performative, it's financial, and it's, it's
political. Um, I, I think that McMahn is maybe
the closest thing Trump has to an actual friend.
Um, SO. Um, I, I, for us, I mean,
the, the financial stuff and we, we untangled a
lot of this in our book, but some of
it we've, you know, it's, it's, nobody has, um,
so it's like I actually wrote some of these
down. So Linda McMahon donated, so, um, the financial
stuff we could date back to the presidential run,
and it's, it's extreme. In 2016, Linda McMahon gave
Vince's wife, who has a role in WWE. She
gave him $7 million for his campaign. I don't
know if you remember at the beginning of the
campaign in 2015, he was not accepting money. That
was the biggest thing. He was self-financing his campaign.
Then he did this thing about, oh, well, what
if, what if, if an old lady sends me
a $1 check, I'm not gonna send it back.
A couple of times he tried out, what if
I do this, and people booed. Then he just
stopped talking about it and McMahon gives him like
uh $7 million. Um, SHE became in 2017 to
2019, the administrator of the Small Business Administration for
the federal government. She stepped down and had his,
she led his super PAC in 2020, uh, the
largest pro Trump super PAC. That's a weird thing
that should be illegal with campaign finance laws, but
isn't because of the first Supreme Court, um. The,
um, in 2007 and 2009. 10 years prior to
that, the McMahon's donated $5 million to Trump's family
foundation. And for years they gave nothing to their
own family foundation. I don't know if you remember
Trump's family foundation was shut down by the courts
because it was fraudulent.
Was that around the time McMahon was trying to
run for Senate in Connecticut?
I think that was after that, which it was
after, OK, cool. OK, Google it though. That's, uh,
um, so, so that the family foundation is a
very weird thing and, and again, that's like 2,
You know, 2007 and 2009. What, why are they
doing this? Nobody knows. Um, SHE gave over $10
million to his campaign in 2024. She led the
American First Policy Institute, served on Truth Social's board,
and became co-chair of his transition team. Now she's
the head of the, the Department of Education. There's
some money stuff that we, we just couldn't figure
out and no one has, um, evolving, uh, a
large amount of money in the Gulf states. I
think I just read that. In the year and
a half since Trump's been president, this time, his,
his, um, fortune has more than tripled. Their family
members getting tens and hundreds of millions of dollars
through crypto schemes. There's a lot of golf money
from that. There was and
there's also golf money in the WWE as well.
So like the, so that's, that's common to both,
yeah, it didn't because sports watching, I think started
with WWE
predates started with their shows from Riyadh because, uh,
Prince, is it MLS NBS. Uh, Mohammad bin Salman,
uh, was trying to present himself as a westward-looking
transformational figure in Saudi. So they started sponsoring huge
Saudi shows and using the wrestling content as an
ad to go to Riyadh.
So there's some overlap between and so I. I
need to be very careful,
yeah, and now they're doing that also with other
sports, right? Like for example, in 2023, Cristiano Ronaldo
also went there to play soccer and he's now
in Al Nasser, so.
Yeah, well, and on top of all that,
building at this point, like,
yeah, and, and just to build on John's point
real quick, if you look at the April 20th,
2026, uh, uh, issue of The New Yorker, they
published something on Linda McMahon. It's how professional wrestling
prepared Linda McMahon for Trump's cabinet. So we're not
the only people talking about this. Like major journalistic
institutions are also talking about this.
But there, there is a weird thing like when,
when the Gulf states are maybe overpaying quite a
bit for these wrestling matches, the WWE, the people
that won that largess are putting money into.
Uh, I mean, they, they're overpaying everyone. Uh, THEY'RE
also overpaying Cristiano Ronaldo. I mean, €200 million per
year at his age is just ridiculous.
Well, also, I wanna say for a single show
in Saudi Arabia, they make more than an, than
an American or a European WrestleMania. Not that they've
ever done a European WrestleMania, they've done European Summer
Slams, but those shows are the most profitable according
to earnings reports from TKO.
Yeah, I'm not sure if they're going ahead with
that, but they said that WrestleMania 43 was going
to be in Saudi Arabia.
I don't know if they're going ahead with that
either because of the war in Iran, but that
was certainly their intent. Uh, AND before that they
did the greatest royal Rumble in, uh, Saudi Arabia.
Shane McMahon win that? That was kind of lame.
Um, I think 20
years from now people are going to figure out
something in this golf money and wrestling. And the
Trump was, was
that the one where, was that the one where
Titus O'Neill went
below the roof straight through, I believe so. So
I, I actually stopped watching WWE when the Saudi
money became too big of a thing. It was,
it was a combination of the Saudi money. And
um Ronda Rousey, uh, losing to Becky Lynch, but
not tapping out. I, I just, for some reason
that finish rubbed me the wrong way and I
was like, I'm done. I'm done with WWE and
I, and at that time AEW was starting, so
that's mostly what I watch now.
OK, OK, no, that's fair, that's fair, but I
mean, going back to Trump and Vince McMahon, I
mean, when you look at them in terms of
personality, business practices, and improper behavior, what are the
main similarities that you see?
Yeah, can we start that one now and then
you can, absolutely. Yeah, yeah, we, we, we, in
the introduction of our book, we chronicle a bunch
of these, um. There's, there's, there's just a shocking
amount of parallels. They both inherited wealth. They both
had incredibly difficult, problematic fathers. They're both amazing self-promoters.
They both had a history of like just inexplicable
business failures and rescue. And with McMahon, it's very
hard to figure out where the money came from,
from, you know, where did he get the couple
of million dollars to buy his father and stuff
like that. Um. There are serious sexual misconduct allegations
and some, some, you know, Trump had recently was
convicted of, uh, with one of them, um, and
then there's the, the stuff that man with him
finally stepping down, uh, things coming out that are
because of the Janelle Grant lawsuit, yeah, that, that's
ongoing.
Um, THEY both attacked media. They're the only two
people in American life who successfully attacked a judge
and prosecutors. During McMahon's uh steroids trial, people thought
he's crazy, all these lawyers, don't do this, dude.
He would publicly go out and attack the judges
and prosecutors. That was the macro for Trump doing
the same. The phrase you're fired predates The Apprentice.
It was used in WWE by McMahon. Um, SO
there's this weird similarities between the two and their,
their lives. They're both like really problematic with their
own daughters, you know, you talk.
WAYS. I forgot about that actually. I forgot
about that.
I mean they're problematic with women in general, right?
I mean if you, if you go back and
watch certain segments from the attitude era and from
the ruthless aggression era, I mean there are many
weird things going on there with, with, with, for
example, Trish Strathers and. AND yeah, and that whole
thing with Ashley
wrestlers in the history of wrestling. It was just
so irritating because you'd want to watch them because
they were so good on the microphone and they
could actually wrestle, and then you're seeing them being
mistreated by this promotion, um, but the, you know,
sexual assault during the attitude era was really problematic
ways put into the storylines, but one of them
was like his daughter was in the storyline. Yeah,
there was a moment where he pitched a storyline
where Stephanie got pregnant and it would be revealed
he was the father, and Stephanie declined to do
that storyline, but I believe, yeah,
and then, and then he suggested, and then he
suggested the uh her brother Sean McMahon, but but
she also, she also declined.
Yeah, I mean, I, I can say as a
fan, I wouldn't want to see that.
No, no, me neither. I, I, I mean, it's
awful, but also, I guess that back then I
would have already been, uh, done with, uh, the
MacM's on my TV. I mean, it's, it was
already too much.
So it lasted like 20 years. But
I think one of the deepest connections, so there
are all these sort of biographical connections and just
weirdness connections, but, um, and morally problematic connections. But,
you know, one of the things Dylan and I
noticed is they both had a way to like,
um, Weaponize their own lack of shame and um.
You know, they, they would, they would, they, they
can turn things that would defeat them into like
superpowers. It's, it's, we explore that in a lot
of the books. I, I think we'll end up
talking more about that in the future, but that,
yeah, I remember the weird, the weird similarity, you
know, that they, they have in common, and, and
we think that like. Trump learned a lot of
that from McMahon during the 20 year period when
he was
right around the time the grab them by the
you know what tape hit. I want to say
that was right around the time Trump went to
the debate with Clinton, with all of Bill Clinton's
sexual assault accusers. To try to get the, and,
and, you know, to better or worse, that is
what people talked about. They stopped talking about the
tape. They started talking about the Clinton's problematic history
with uh sexual assault, and all of a sudden
this devastating claim became a moot point because they
both, they were both suspect.
But somehow like the scandal becomes part of the
story, that keeps people watching. And that's, you know,
I, I think Trump is, is social media persona,
like he, he. You know, he's winning if the
eyeballs are on him if he has the ratings,
you know, and that's, that's, that's the cardinal rule
in, in wrestling is what gets butts in the
seat, you know, it's great if you're a bad
guy, people want to come to hate you, you're
getting butts in the seat. You're part of the
story, and
I
mean, even doesn't hit you the way it does
other politicians if that's, yeah, I
mean, even sometimes Vince McMahon himself was willing to
humiliate himself on TV just to get the butts
on seats, right? I mean,
we've got a whole chapter on, on that, right?
Like, uh, where we talk about the buffoonery of
the authoritarian figure.
Yeah, yeah, I, I mean, we're going to get
into that and I mean I guess that we've
already talked here about a little bit about the
personal business and political ties between them, so I,
I also don't want to give the entire book
away, so I mean, but, but let me ask
you this, do you think that the mannerisms and
way of speaking that we see now, now, I
mean since 2015, Trump using in politics, do you
think that you learned that from. From, uh, participating
in wrestling and from Vince McMahon himself.
I think so. I mean, I, I think if
you watch his appearances in WWE you can see
the seeds of his MAGA personality being sort of
incorporated into the storylines or invented on TV in
front of us, um, because he, you know, the,
the mythology of the good billionaire definitely gets its
start with Trump as the person saving WWE for
the fans from Vince McMahon. And you know, and
that that storyline was, I, I mean it, it
was fairly popular at the time. Um, I, I,
and same thing with the uma when, when the,
the hair versus hair match with Umaga versus, uh,
Bobby, yeah, yeah, like. The good billionaire ended up
being a, a, a myth that had a lot
of cultural cachet. And when he finally decided to
turn his grievances against the Obama administration into a
presidential run, he already had the blueprint for the
character he would play.
Yeah, and then, and then the storylines, like, there's
a corrupt villain, there's a sort of comic book
hero, um, and, um, that's promising to do something
incredible that's never done before like that. We saw
that fictionally in WWE then it became the back
row for, uh, the presidential campaigns.
And his timing was brilliant, right? Like in 20,
I, I wanna say in 2015, there was an
article by a PhD candidate in Chicago, and I
cannot locate the blog for the life of me,
cause this was several computers ago, who wrote an
entire, like, detailed series of blog posts about how
he he believed that the end of the neoliberal
era was upon us, and that what would be
coming would either be populism from the right or
populism from the left. And this guy just predicted
what would happen in the Trump versus uh Clinton
election, the Biden versus Trump election, and then eventually,
like, all of it was spelled out of these
blog posts, and I cannot find them. So if
you are that scholar, uh, who wrote
that, the next election in England when Labor loses,
so we
can, so we can quote you because you were
dead on. But I mean, yeah, his timing was
impeccable in making an outsider bid for the presidency.
Um, I, I, I think a lot of that
comes from his understanding of professional wrestling and narrative.
Yeah, but, but I mean, on, on the topic
of cave, uh, I, I mean, maybe actually we
should explain for people who are not wrestling fans
what Kwave is because they've been hearing this word
cave, K fave, K fave, and maybe some of
them are questioning, oh, what, what, what the heck
is Kwave
so, so there's, there's a really contentious debate. In
professional wrestling studies about what KFB is and what
KFB isn't, and we try to gesture toward that
in the book, we end up being almost originalists
with KFab in that we, we just refer to
it as the code among people in wrestling to
in front of fans, pretend it's real, um, basically
to not reveal that the outcomes are predetermined because
it is real. It's still real to me, damn
it.
Yeah, you basically are preserving the audience's suspension of
disbelief by not. Giving them visible proof that what
they're watching is in some way not on the
up and up. And throughout history, this was both
enforced and transgressed regularly. You can find, um, exposes
of the professional wrestling industry being, uh, predetermined results
back to the 19 teens. So, it's like every
generation discovers pro wrestling, and then every generation discovers
that pro wrestling might not be might not be
on the up and up. But it just happens
over and over and over again. But we I
Believe KFbe comes out of the carnivals. Uh, IN
particular, they would have the, the rigged strongman competitions
where there'd be a, a strong man, he'd wrestle
anyone from the crowd, and the first person that
would come from the crowd would be a carnival
employee, and he would almost beat the strong man.
So then people would start giving money so they
could beat the strong man, but the strong man
was actually a chute fighter and would choke them
out and hurt them for real, or, or if
he got in trouble, he would bowl them over
near a curtain and someone behind the curtain would
hit them with a bat. Right, so, so that's
the original cave. We even
think it became more, it was just much safer
for everybody involved, yeah, more and more of it
in these carnivals where it's predetermined and the and
the term we
we actually think the term comes from carni. Um,
IT might be a carnivalization or pig Latin form
of fake you
know the Snoop Dogg talk like the shizzle stuff
that's from under, yeah,
yeah, yeah, that's also, that's also related.
Cafa has phonetically in it fake. THREW a pig
light you could go from fake to K fabe.
So that's, you know, that's a hypothesis. But
so we, we see Kfabe as largely the, the
code that protects the suspend the audience's ability to
suspend their disbelief, um. And you can find that
throughout most of wrestling. If you listen to wrestlers
and wrestler podcasts and books, they tend to take
the same. That's why we gesture toward the, the
debate in professional wrestling studies, but we end up
sticking with something that's fairly recognizable to wrestling fans
just because, um, for our purposes and what it
describes, we, we think this is, this is a
really precise usage. So, so
can I just, yeah, a lot of scholars that
we've learned from, they tend to extend it. Um,
SO like, oh, it's a contract between the audience
and the, you know, this may be Euro Lane's
good, you know, a contract between the audience and
the performer to do this, that, the other, and
we think that's absolutely right, like because the con
the audience has to be complicit in their own
suspension of disbelief. We describe that as like. Not
the, you know, not what KA is, but like
how KA functions in the, in the promotion. So
that, that's kind of the difference. It doesn't make
a difference, but by your notion of KA, we're
able to build on the OK fade. The other
thing is that like at some periods of history,
KA was ruthlessly invested. So
mid-South dissertation all about it. So in mid-Salvation you're
fired like what John described in his origin story.
Where he saw the good guy and the bad
guy in the same car, Bill Watts of Mid-South,
the owner, he would fire any wrestler that broke
KApe like that. He would not allow Heels and
Baby Faces to stay in the same hotels. So
they would actually race after the show to get
the nice hotel on the Louisiana Circuit. If the
Baby Faces got there first, they would get it.
If the Heels got there first, they would get
it. But
if
you
lost
a
bar fight, he would, he would fire you, right?
Yeah, that's exactly the point I was gonna say.
In Mid-South. If you lost a bar fight, Bill
Watts would fire you. He said, why am I
paying you? I should be paying the guy who
kicked your ass in the bar. Um, BECAUSE you've
just exposed that my wrestlers are not tough in
real life. So he's like, so the wrestlers would
usually go to the bars together so that if
something got out of hand, they could protect each
other. But again, that's also, you know, that, that
ultimately is a way to protect KA because if
I was in a bar and I watched. Some
random dude beat up Doctor Death Steve Williams, um,
that would have crushed me, you know, cause he's
Doctor Death. He's supposed to be the best, but
he's getting beat up by some random Louisiana, uh,
country boy. Like, that, that seems weird to
me. But the, the, the thing about the collaboration
between the audiences, so by, uh, part of my
other, the other part of my origin story I'll
share my maternal grandfather, um, in college, I don't
know, the 1930s. Um, HE, he wrestled under the
name Bay Ackerman, and he was a heel in
Texas, in local circuits. So he had this thing
where, like, at the very end of it, when
the, when the, um, you know, he'd be bad,
um, The, uh, the good guy would slap him
so hard he would have a piece of chalk
in his mouth and he'd spit out the chalk,
so it looked like he'd slapped the tooth out
of his head, go crazy, but like. People would
see him with all of his teeth the next
week. And so like if you're not an audience,
you have to be complicit in it. So it's
a, it's a, it's a constant negotiation prior to
the absolute breaking of KFB at the Montreal screw
job which we have a chapter about, um, but,
but that leads to Neil KFbe. So, so KFB
is this, it's, it's that code narrowly defined, broadly
defined. It's the negotiation to, to preserve fandom. But
that's prior to what we call postmodern fanism because
remember there's the, the Southern fan, the terminal critic,
they've Guthrie and Crystal, the fan, then the postmodern
fan. But the fan has to suspend disbelief and
KA, you know, and you have to maintain it
just not to allow the fan to do this.
And if you want to see some of the,
some of the discourse that we gesture toward, you
can actually look in the Free Journal Professional Wrestling
Studies. I believe it's issue 2 or 3, where
KAB was the central topic of the issue. So
we went through that and sort of traced where
it went. I thought, I thought it was really
enlightening, and, you know, although we ended up. Endorsing
a form of KAB that's much closer to what
wrestlers talk about, that doesn't mean that the discourse
didn't mightily inform what we were doing. You can
also look at Herbert Blaus, the audience, which for
philosophy fans, they're less, uh, familiar with, but that's
sort of one of the, the, uh, central books
on suspension of disbelief published in recent history. So
there's Even our approach in this, we, we talk
about this being an interdisciplinary book, but we are
taking stuff from performance studies, professional wrestling studies, theater
history, theater studies, and combining it with just, not
just with analytic philosophy. We once, someone once told
us in a presentation, like, oh, it seems like
you guys are just taking wrestling and just doing
analytic philosophy, and we're like, just is doing a
lot of work in that sentence, you know.
Yeah, but, but look, uh, let me ask you
because you said that in the book you talk
about the Montreal screw job which happened at Survivor
Series 1997 in the match between Brett Hart and
Shawn Michaels, but I mean, uh, but sometimes when
it comes to, uh, Kwave being irreversibly broken in
the history. History of wrestling. Sometimes people mentioned the
curtain call in 1996. I mean, uh,
what the difference was that wasn't televised until, until
later. So because it only happened in the New
York market, all we saw at the time as
wrestling fans, if you were watching back then, is
all of a sudden Triple H starts losing matches.
After being on a huge push, um, all of
a sudden he's losing matches and then this guy
Steve Austin wins the King of the Ring, um,
and then
no one and, and you know, and you know,
actually, actually, in hindsight, maybe Vince McMahon was grateful
for that because it was when he pushed Steve
Austin. So otherwise it would have been Triple Agen.
We don't know at all what would have happened.
So they're still on its face after the curtain
call in Montreal. And for people that don't know
what that was, a number of wrestlers were leaving
WWF and it
was Scott Hall and Kevin Nash.
Yeah, Scott Hall, Kevin Nash, Sean Waltman, uh, and,
uh, Paul Leveck, who's Triple H, and Hogan hadn't
left yet. Hogan had left already, so they were
going join
Hogan, yeah, Hogan. It was, was at WWF in
'94.
So basically what happened was, uh, Triple H and
Sean were staying. Shawn Michaels were staying, and Kevin
Ash and Scott Hall were leaving. So they came
out to the ring and did a goodbye, where
baby faces and heels in front of the New
York audience said goodbye to each other. Now, that
wasn't televised, so for the fans in Madison Square
Garden. And I think Madison Square Garden has a
house capacity of a couple 1000. So, ultimately, this
was something that they could just pretend didn't happen.
Whereas if you look at the Shawn Michaels and
Brett Hart double cross, which is what the Montreal
screw job is, that's the first time where to
understand the storylines of professional wrestling, you have to
understand in storyline that professional wrestling is predetermined.
Right, but, but I mean the screw job also
ended up being one of the main, the main
points of inflection in terms of creating the Mr.
McMahon character.
Absolutely. So all of a sudden you've got suspension
of disbelief is no longer being rigorously protected on
television, and in fact, to make sense of that
storyline, the only way it makes sense is if
you know that the guy who was the announcer,
Vince McMahon, actually owned the company. Actually rigged the
match and there was a script, they didn't follow
the script, and then the script was broken in
front of everyone. And that is a vastly different
ask of an audience than a traditional wrestling match.
Do you want to,
it would be like being John Malkovich where the
John Malkovich character. Was both the character John Malkovich
plays in a movie like A Dangerous Liaisons and
John Malkovich. Yeah, it's just, it's a really postmodern.
So that's the, that's the postmodern film. They have
to track two ontologies, the shoot ontology, which is
the work ontology, the shoot ontology, the work ontology
is the, the, the ontology of the fiction that's
being told. The shoot ontology is the ontology of
the real world with economic conditions underlying it. It's
so like, uh, yeah, the ring announcer says ring
the bell, um. And Sean Michael, who was scripted
to lose the match, wins it, and then Brett
Hart, like, goes crazy and starts doing WCW. And
like, what are they,
how
can you be
a Southern fan after that, right? Like, how can
you believe when, when it, when understanding the storyline
presupposes that you know it's fake?
So our, our, our, our deepest sort of like,
I, I'm gonna, it sounds like I'm patting myself
on the back by saying this, but I'll say
insight in the book is that. The important connection
between Trump and McMahon. Is 1, the universal breaking
of KAB, but 2. We didn't know if like
this was gonna destroy WWE. What did they do
to save the brand under the conditions of Neo
KFbe? And what they did, and that was the
most profitable, most butts in the seats period of
wrestling ever, was the after breaking KFB and the
things the promotion did. That's also the period where
Trump isn't, you know, um, watching it and then
getting himself involved in it. So it's, it's, it's
what the promotion did to profit under the conditions
of Neil KFB. Trump has come along and saw.
How can you succeed as a politician under the
conditions of late era neoliberalism? And where neither party
does what they say they're going to do, you
know, whatever you vote for, you're going to get
austerity. Right. Whoever you vote for, Britain is the
worst case of this right now. Um, AND so
like what this is fake. They're, they're not doing
what they say they're gonna do. Um, THAT lack
of confidence that we had at the end of
the Obama administration because all the opium got smoked
or snorted or whatever you do with opium. Um,
YOU know, Trump sees it. It, it was a
brilliant realization on his part. But what we've also
realized is that the stuff Trump does and McMahon
does, you see that around autocrats around the world.
This is stuff that just works, um, but it's
just particularly focused in WWE because it's a fictional
universe interacting with the real world, and then Trump,
Trump going for it.
So does that have anything to do with uh
the fact that Trump doesn't seem to care that
much about the truth? I mean that basically he
can go on uh tirades that are fact-free or,
I mean, Vince did the same thing, right? Like
Vince McMahon has said for, I'm not, I'm not
gonna talk about this for long at all, but.
After Montreal, all of a sudden the WWE when
it switched to its PG era, was like, well,
we're a business for kids, and it's like, if
you look at the numbers, actually, they're not. They're
a business for people between 35 and, and 55
or so. And the highest percentage of children watching
was actually during the attitude era, which was the
era you don't want kids watching wrestling. But the,
the The rebranding of the company around appealing to
PG audiences was based on a lie, and that
lie is still regularly believed. And I know John,
you have a lot to say about this too.
So I'm gonna, I'll, I'll defer to you on
the rest of you.
Let me, let me just say, I, I thought
that back in the attitude era, the biggest demographic
was between 18 and 35, or did I get
it was, but Because it was a boom period,
every demographic was watching. Rob did something like, uh,
a 9.8 in the Nielsen's for an Undertaker versus
Stone Cold match, which was the highest rating of
any wrestling show ever. And so, of course, like
the bigger demographics were adults, but because every demographic
was up, the most in terms of raw numbers
was the attitude error. Um, AND it was decidedly
not for kids.
There's a, there's a political point here that's important,
um. I want this like this, I may be
misremembering it, but a plurality of viewers. Um, WHERE
the largest demographic percentage of viewers during the attitude
era were in the United States were adult men
who didn't have college degrees and who voted Democrat.
Now there probably are not that many adult men
in the United States without college degrees that vote
Democrat. And the, the promise that, uh, the storylines
that WWE told is the same, is the same
promise that Trump made in 2015. And so this,
this ties to your question about bullshit that I'll
get to, but it's a restoration of an economic
social contract. So Steve, um, stone Cold Steve Austin,
he punches his boss in the face. He's always
defeating the billionaires in the story. All the stories
that, that we remember are around that with Steve
Austin, but it's also there were a lot of
sexual, uh, contract with the, with the amping up
of sexism. And so a certain demographic that was
being dislocated by neoliberalism and offshoring jobs. That's what
they wanted to watch, and there are enough of
them around that the story Trump told in 2015
was the same. Now there's, there's an important academic,
uh, Harry Frankfurt, amazing philosopher, wrote a book called
On Bullshit. He defines bullshit as, um, saying things
where the, so, so a liar respects the truth.
A hypocrite respects virtue. Hypocrisy is the tribute that
vice pays to virtue, because you'll only be a
hypocrite because people expect you to be good. Part
of Trump's perceived honesty is that he's not a
hypocrite. You'll just say things that violate bourgeois morality.
But the, the, the lens that people reading Frankfurt
tried to read Trump through is that like, oh,
he's a bullshitter. He's, um, he's saying things, he's
not lying. A lying is I want to convince
you of something false. A bullshitter is insensible to
truth or falsity. I think that's too crude a
reading of what Trump's doing. There is a Steve
Bannon thing, flood the zone with bullshit. That's important.
Like you just get so much information out there,
nobody can tell the truth from falsehood anymore. I
don't think that's what Trump's doing. Trump is telling
a good story that's going to put eyes on
him. He learned that from WWE. He really did
that well in The Apprentice with a sort of
chaotic energy, and he weaponized that in politics, bringing
back a lot of the tropes from WWE. So
I, I think that. You, you need this analysis
of bullshit to say that often the, the, the
pragmatic point of what's being accomplished with the Speech
Act isn't to convince somebody of something, it's doing
something else. But just saying it's bullshit doesn't analyze
what it's doing for him and why it works,
cause it's definitely doing something. And there's
no doubt that it does work. I, I, I'm
not gonna, I'm not gonna talk for long on
this, but I was a teenager when Stone Cold
Steve Austin was beating up his boss. I was
from a rural community in Louisiana. I did not
like Babyface or Good Guy pro wrestlers, but I
loved Stone Cold Steve Austin, as did. Tons of
adolescent male men, because all of us had had
power exerted over us in a way that felt
unjust, and the hero figure of Steve Austin gave
us a sense of the world as it should
be. All right, go back, John. What,
what, what, what, what was Bill Clinton saying at
the same time? Like he, he would go to
these communities where the, um, the factory had been
offshored, right, and the Chinese took our jobs, so
they didn't. The Mexicans take our jobs. We sent
them over there and we gave them our jobs,
and he would tell them like, um, oh well,
you're going to be retrained for something, so you.
Go to school for like HVAC, but like a
small town with no industrial base doesn't need 100
HVAC engineers or that the worst was the creative
class. Everyone's gonna program, like everyone's going to design
web pages in HTML. That's not an economic base
for a country. We've kept it going because people
have not many dollars, right? People buy oil with
dollars so we could go consumerist, and this is
for the, you know, we'll talk about neoliberalism more
later, I hope. But, um, at the same time.
The jobs are going overseas and you have a
lot of like deaths of despair in the United
States. Um, THE political class. Wasn't addressing at all,
like, uh, the Republicans, oh, we just need to
cut taxes more and the government's the problem. Um,
Clinton. You know, we're gonna be this creative class,
and it's, it's the professional management class who were
the bosses of the people of these towns. That
boss class is being patted on the back by
a party that represents them. During this time, the
most popular entertainment is somebody who's punching the. Boss,
and it's no accident. And again, it's, it's the
restoration of the, of the previous 1950s sexual contract,
which is very hierarchical and sexist, you know, really
bad. Um, LOOK at how many American women were
institutionalized or, you know, on, on, on serious antipsychotic
drugs to treat their menopause, you know. When, when
I, when I was a kid, you would drive
in a, in a rest stop and you'd see
older women and their lower jaws would just be
moving free like this. That's tardive dyskinesia. Which is
a side effect of antipsychotic drugs which were wildly
prescribed to miserable housewives during that sexual contract. But,
you know, some sort of longing for that, but
plus the New Deal economic contract that was ripped
away by both parties. And again, that's what Trump
ran on. He didn't govern on it. The fact
that he didn't govern on it and still got
re-elected the second time tells you that like, um.
The power to just To have politics be replaced
by something where you're just punishing enemies is incredibly
powerful. And people will vote against their own economic
interests to at least get that, and that's what
you've done when you've given up all hope.
And, and the second, the second time Trump got
elected, he was very adamant. He's like, no, Project
2025 is not what I'm going to do. Then
immediately institutes it, right? That's why, but
he ran on retribution.
He did. He did. And but
he
didn't run
on the second time.
I think that's why his approval rating is so
low right now is because in the, the second
time he ran, he delivered on the retribution, but
he did not deliver on the other stuff that
he promised. Yeah,
yeah, yeah, no, no, before we go on, let
me just say that. I mean, back in the
attitude era with the Mr. McMahon character and all
of that because you were talking about uh Steve
Austin punching him in the face. I, I mean,
the fun, uh, the most fun part was uh
uh Steve Austin stunning Mr. McMahon, but, but, but
Vince McMahon should have learned to sell the stunner
better because. He was actually a bad, a very
bad seller of the stunner. I mean, the best
one was The Rock and Mr. Vince McMahon was
really, really bad at selling the sun.
Vince never wanted to be a character until he
had to be a character. In the 80s, he,
he, uh, I heard an interview with, uh, Ted
DiBiase talking about when he got pitched the Million
Dollar Man gimmick. And Pat Patterson, who was Vince's
number one guy, told, told Ted, he's like, look,
we can't tell you what the gimmick is until
you sign, but it's so good Vince McMahon would
lace up the boots to do it himself if
he could. And that's how, and that's, so Ted
DiBiase just called his wife and said, I don't
know what's about to happen, but it's about to
be big, cause I've been told we're only flying
first class from here on out to preserve the
illusion. So Vince knew he wasn't a good wrestler.
Like he, he wanted to be a wrestler, but
it wasn't until the, the Montreal screw job, which
actually he, he did a test run of the
McMahon character in Memphis, uh, before he became Mr.
McMahon with Jerry Lawlor when he hired Lawlor. Um,
HE was the evil WWE owner, and apparently he
had the time of his life doing it. So
when it came time to make the jump. You
know, he knew he wouldn't be able to get
it done in the ring, but he happened to
be in the ring against some of the greatest
professional wrestlers the world had, uh the American world
had ever seen. So the Rock and Austin could
carry him, but you're absolutely right, his stunner sucked.
Like, you didn't watch Vince McMahon wrestle because it
was gonna be a good match. The, the draw
was something very different.
By the way, you mentioned Pat Patterson. It just
came to mind because of the, because of the
Epstein files. I mean, was that thing about the
pedophile ring ever confirmed, or?
It depends on what you mean by confirmed. Um,
DID a court of law find him guilty? I
don't believe it.
That poor kid killed himself, didn't he?
Uh, THE kid killed, the kid ended up committing.
Josie Reisman talks about this and like, um, oh,
when they got him not to press charges.
They settled. They settled with the kid,
but then the McMahons were like the way they
treated this kid was, is horrific.
It's monstrous. And I wanna say the, the only
fallout that Pat Patterson had is they fired him
for a year until the heat went down, then
they brought him back, cause Pat Patterson was the
guy who booked the Royal Rumble. Um, THAT was
his signature match because Patterson came out of the
San Francisco circuit, and the big matches in San
Francisco were, I believe that was under Roy Shire.
I could be wrong about that, but this in,
in. California, where Patterson was from, the biggest event
of the year was a giant battle royal. So
that,
we should tell the listeners about the scandal, and
I want to be careful because it's so sensitive.
But so, so correct me. So Pat Patterson, was
he a booker? What was his?
He was Vince McMahon's basically number 2 guy. So
he was, if you, if you followed wrestling during
the attitude era, he was Jim Ross before Jim
Ro
the
ringing
boys doing during this period.
The ring boys were setting up the ring, and
allegedly they would get, they would trade sexual favors
for um exposure. That is the allegation. It was
never proven in a court of law, so I,
I am not speaking to whether that actually happened.
The court case was settled, but one of the
people that they settled with ended up committing suicide,
and it was widely rumored in the industry that
this was what was going on, but It never
went to a court of law. It was never
established as a matter of fact. That's why I'm
trying to be very precise
about. I mean, we're going to come back to
that later, but I mean there were many performers
that were heavily damaged by WWE. I mean, you
have, for example, China. Ashley Massaro, who just recently,
I don't know if
it was 2020, tragic, like what happened,
no, no, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, but
I, I mean even China, I mean, I remember
back in 2015, Vince Russo interviewing her for his
YouTube channel because they were close friends and I,
I, I mean she was a mess because she
never got closure from that Triple H thing and
the way she was treated. By WWE and so
on, and she very sadly ended up passing from
an overdose, an overdose in 2016. So, you know,
and, and I mean, it's something that, you know,
people might not be aware of, but the wrestling
business for a very long time, um, when we,
when people say wrestling is fake, what, what they
mean is it's predetermined because there's never a safe
way to take a bump. Like, you can do
it as safely as possible and distribute your weight
across your body, but physically, The doing wrestling is
a huge physical toll. And back in the 80s
and 90s, the house, the house show schedule, those
are untelevised shows, they would work five or six,
in some cases, 5 days a week, taking these
bumps, getting hurt, even two
days a week is too much. Yeah,
and the only way your body could take that
for a lot of people who weren't physically gifted
is they would start doing steroids, not just For
cosmetics, but because steroids are used to heal injuries
quickly. But then,
but then like Vince would only book the biggest
people. Yeah, they would have to take way more
steroids, and so many wrestlers thought like Eddie Guerrero,
we, we talk about this in the book, like,
uh, you know, they, they take human growth hormone
and steroids, and then the heart just like.
And I'm working on, I've got an in process
paper I'm working on where you can explicitly connect
steroid invention with the Cold War. Like it was
viewed as a necessary thing to combat Russia, synthesizing
uh fake testosterone. Because the, the guy who invented
anabolic steroids said, no, this is patriotism. We have
to produce athletes that can rival these medicated Russians.
Um, SO even then, like the, the use of
steroids in the way McMahon would end up using
it was the subtext the entire time that the
Nazis
had similar compounds because of the, the rec book
we read, which is the guy making fun of,
he died in a camp, but like one of
the, it's very much like a super soldiers, um,
but like he, um. He, he comments on the
German athletes in the Olympics, like being the paradigms
of masculinity but being impotent because of the chemicals
they were given. There,
there was, yeah, I know when it came time
for the Russians to use it, there were people
who were so steroided up to use the bathroom,
they had to catheterize their, their, uh, genitals. And
that is, that, that's a fact. Like they were,
I,
I mean, in the, in the, in the Rocky
saga, what was the movie where he fights the
Russian guy? Is it
Rocky?
It's 2, yeah, it's got to be 2 because
I have a Drago. I,
yeah, yeah, Drago,
yeah, no, because I was just thinking that in
that movie they even depict the Russian guy, I
mean them injecting things into his body and then
Rocky just doing all natural kind of on or
whatever, yeah,
yeah, yeah, but, but the, the McMahon like could
have lost it all in. A lawsuit, um, I
guess like, uh, his role in providing the wrestlers
with steroids and the fact that they felt like
they had to do it.
And McMahon believed he was going to lose. He
actually approached Jerry Jarrett, who was the guy that
co-ran Memphis for a long time. He brought in
Jarrett to be his number 2 in case he
went to federal prison. So that was the plan
was that if he went to federal prison, Jerry
Jarrett, who'd run, and Memphis stylistically was the closest
you could get to WWE without it being WWE,
um, that was the guy that was gonna take
it over because McMahon was convinced he was going
to jail.
Yeah, I mean, but so many wrestlers died in
their 40s. Um, IT'S because of drug, but when
you make them do that multiple times a week,
like, it's, you know, and then you make them
have like, These ridiculous bodybuilder bodies, um, it's, it's
just not a recipe for long life. It's amazing
Hulk Hogan lived as long as he did. I
mean, it's,
it's like until they
he's a real outlier, like so many of them
died in their
40s, until the crackdown on, um, steroids that happened
after the, the murder-suicide incident with Chris Benoit and,
uh, a year after the death of Eddie Guerrero.
Um, I want to say something like more than
50 people who wrestled in the 80s and 90s
died before the age of 50 just because of
uh opiate abuse and steroid abuse. They had enlarged
hearts and would frequently suffer heart attacks. And we,
we were watching some old WWE or, or WrestleManias
and like talking off how many of them had
died. It was, it was, it was so grim.
You could literally
talk about are dead now from drug use.
But even nowadays sometimes there are some questionable things
because for example, when, when Randy Orton came back
at Survivor Series 2023, I mean he was much,
much, much bigger than it was before and many
people questioned many. QUESTION, I mean, isn't he taking
steroids and the same with AJ Stiles when he
came back for his final run?
I believe, I believe, I do not know this.
I believe both companies, AEW, All Elite Wrestling, and
World Wrestling Entertainment, no longer test for steroids regularly.
Mm, I, that is my belief based on the
appearance of certain people and the way appearances change.
Uh, I do not have proof of that, but
I, I believe they no longer have a wellness
policy governing that. They, their wellness policy covers other
things, but I believe they are no longer worried
about anabolic steroid usage the way they were.
And there, you know, there's no chemicals all the,
all the time, like, um.
Uh, HUMAN growth hormones, our new,
I gotta make clear that any political things I
say are not, don't represent LSU, but like our
new Chancellor Dalton, who's been the provost of, of,
uh, Alabama, he's, uh, he's a brilliant, like, uh,
pharmacology guide. He designed a chemical that's really useful
for, um. People on um. People getting chemotherapy that
lose muscle mass and it prevents them from losing
muscle mass. A bunch of Olympic athletes tested for
this drug that he designed years ago because you
lose muscle mass when you take, uh, whatever the
semaglutides to lose weight. And so they think people
are taking them now with the glutides. This pill
that's, that's really, really life-saving for cancer patients. People
are taking it and so the, the. People in
sports are really good at like tracking what the
brilliant chemists and come up with and thinking, can
we do this and then you get ahead of
it. So I, it's possible there's still, I mean,
you know way more about this, you know, it's
possible they're still doing it, but But I mean
there are there are people there that know about
the new chemicals that aren't testing for them if
they're pushing for that body size.
One of the people I cite a lot in
my work is the journalist Dave Meltzer, who's the
longest tenured journalist covering pro wrestling, and he also
was the earliest journalist that covered ultimate fighting. And
one of the things he's been consistent on in
combat sports is that it is their, their drug
testing regime is an intelligence test, um, for an
for an athlete. Like you can beat any drug
test if you are. Capable of understanding how you
are being tested and what you're I'm sorry though,
like when, when they started the wellness policy after
the Chris Benoit thing, it was so good. A
few months passed and then you got back and
people had smooth muscles. You didn't see any knee,
and they look like human beings and they can
move much better. The wrestling got better. So that's,
you know, the, the, I think like some steroid
used to heal like that's a, it's a medicine,
right? But you didn't have like, like McMahon really
pushed people to be like just big and You
know, big and immobile.
It, it's, it's why when I talk, when people
talk about the WWE style, it was a simpler
style because simply because the guys didn't move that
well, and they had to rely more on psychology
and things like that in the matches. Um, THAT'S
what my dissertation is on, by the way, it
was on the, the use of style in pro
wrestling and dance, and I did a lot of
interdisciplinary work between philosophy of dance and wrestling. But
I, I mean, I think when you talk about
the way people are training now, if they are
using steroids, I believe there are some people that
are using them cosmetically, but I believe most people
are using them so they can have more athletic
matches and then recover. Because especially with, with no
more house shows and, and wrestlers wrestling maybe 2
times a month in some companies, um, you can
go a lot crazier in those big matches and
then recover. That was how they did it in
Japan, because all Japan and New Japan. The touring
system in the 90s in Japan, when you had
those amazing matches being done in all Japan pro
wrestling with like Doctor Death, Steve Williams, Mitsuharu Musawa,
Toshiki Kawata, those guys, after every tour, they would
go crazy in the last night of the tour
because that was usually Kurakan Hall or the Budokan
or whatever big place. And then they had three
weeks off where they rested. And that's why they
could do the physical style they did because they
weren't doing the WWE style of 5 days a
week wrestling every day.
Yeah, and I, and I mean we were talking
about how the performers are basically mistreated by WWE.
There was also, and I think it at least
to some extent it also applied to the Chris
Benoit case. There were also the CTE cases, the
chronic traumatic encephalopathy cases. I mean with the chair,
the chair shots to the head that nowadays shots.
Yeah, now, now, nowadays they're, Ben, but, but, but
I mean, you, you know what, there are some
performers right now that should be a little bit
more careful because I don't know if you, I
don't know if you've been watching like EO Sky
matches recently, but even she's the best in the
world. Yeah, but
she's, she's taking unnecessary. Risks with those dives.
No, those suicide dives. I mean just recently in
matches against Kyrie and so on, she fell on
her neck two or three times that. I mean,
I mean, I mean,
even, yeah,
go ahead. No, go ahead. The
ties to our book is that, um, you know,
a lot of this is the political history is
late era neoliberalism. And McMahon benefited immensely from the
changes in like anti-monopoly regulation, yeah, the way you
can lard up a company you buy with the
debt and close it, you know, private equity type
abuses, um, and, and this had a, this, this
hurt wrestlers so bad, um, because the old system,
there was a cartel. And basically, Chicago libertarians took
over the federal government for anti-monopoly regulations. Um, CARTELS
were managed like monopolies, so the federal government enforced,
if you work with the promotion, they couldn't sign
you to a unique contract. Because is it AWA
very wrestling was it was a cartel,
I believe it was the NWA in the, in
the consent agreement for antitrust laws in the 19
late 1940s, early 1950s. Yeah,
so, so when, when McMahon, he's not part of
that. And he's using the possibilities that allow you
to make monopolies now. The fact that the cartel
was under the older monopoly thing allowed McMahon to
have a huge advantage because he could go in,
poach the best wrestlers, and sign them to a
unique contract where they couldn't wrestle with anyone else,
but none of the members of the cartel could
sign them to the contracts. So he, he, it
was a brilliant thing. He benefited from anti-monopoly law
to establish an effective monopoly. WCW came out, they
lost. Now AEW is up, so. It's not quite
a total monopoly, but in that time period, I
forget, this may be Reisman's book, she tracks the
amount of money wrestlers made in real dollars, the
average wrestler. And under the cartel system they made
a lot more didn't they wrestlers, like even jobbers
made a living wage and had enough to take
care of their own healthcare and stuff, and it
just radically goes down and it's barely a living
wage. You're doing something really dangerous and you don't
have health insurance, and it's one company that's like
um gaining all those profits and taking it for
itself and giving a lot of money to Donald
Trump along the way. Um, BUT, but it was
the, this, this neoliberal allowing of a big monopoly,
he, he literally like, uh, took advantage of the,
of the last vestiges of real anti-monopoly. You know,
immiserate the employees. The employees are much worse off.
And Ricardo,
I think I know the question you're about to
ask, by the way. Ask, ask the question. I
bet it's, I, I bet I know what it
is.
OK. I was going to ask, do they even
have retirement plans?
No, because that is the exact question I thought
you were gonna ask. Because of the way that
wrestling contracts work, wrestlers are technically considered independent contractors.
However, Independent contractors, real independent contractors in, in the
United States under the law, uh, they are not
required to work exclusively for one company. So, an
independent contractor might not get employee benefits, but they
have so many clients that they're able to get
competitive rates and basically use the market to pay
for themselves. Wrestlers are the opposite. They're signed to
exclusive contracts unless you're in AEW all elite wrestling,
which has a Promotional agreement like the cartel system
with uh CMLL in Mexico, New Japan Pro Wrestling,
Tokyo Tokyo Joshi Pro, GCW, and I think PWG
right now. They own Ring of Honor now, right?
And they own Ring of Honor. But so those
guys can go between any of the cartel promotions,
uh, but for the most part in WWE you
are signed to an exclusive contract. You can't even
do film work without the express consent of the
WWE. So they're. Deemed legally independent contractors, but they
do not get retirement, they do not get health
insurance, um, and they don't get any, uh, they
have to budget for themselves. Whereas, I, I wanna
say, in, I believe what, what industry insiders have
said, like Sean Rosssap, Dave Meltzer, uh, Mike Johnson,
etc. IS that ever since AEW has become the
2nd largest and most successful wrestling promotion of all
time, wrestler pay has gone away. Up because all
of a sudden, WWE has to bid competitively for
people. And what we found is that a lot
of people will take less money to go to
WWE if they grew up watching wrestling and want
a WrestleMania moment. And WWE factors in that nostalgia
into their deals, whereas AEW typically pays more because
they don't have that nostalgia connection. But we're getting
the First generation of people now who've come up
that want to be in AEW because when they
were teenagers, they were watching AEW. Techla, their women's
champion, was like, she's, she's a punk, she's really
into punk rock. She's also a visual artist who
has her own exhibitions and stuff in Florida, and
she's like, Oh yeah, since I was a teenager,
I've wanted to be an AEW. So we're starting
to see it change a little bit.
Wait a minute. How, how old is she? Because
AEW 7. Oh, because I believe started 7 years
ago, so, uh,
yeah, I, I, I'm gonna double check that online
real quick, uh, but I believe she is mid-20s.
Um, WELL, she's 33, she's 33. OK, so I
might be wrong. Um, WHAT she was watching allegedly
was that at least in interviews, she said, so
I'm wrong about her age, she's 33, but she
did not have that emotional connection to WWE. She
grew up in Austria watching, um, local wrestling, European
wrestling, and then Japanese wrestling.
Yes, I mean, economically it's weird. I think that
we don't quite have this figured out because Because
I think Cory Doctorow has this, we don't go
into this in the book, he has this doctor
of in shitification about how like, um, You know,
you can, if you have enough of a monopoly
or a cartel, you can basically extract rents by
making treating the labor worse, making the product worse,
because people don't, that usually happens in the United
States when the barriers of entries are too high.
So there used to be anti-monopoly about, um, uh,
radio stations. You can only own so many radio
stations. When they took that off, Clear Channel did
the WWE thing and went and took over most
of the radio stations. The buried entry to start
a newspaper radio station is so hard. It's so
high that I can, I can buy a newspaper
for $20 million and then like, uh, 80% of
the debt can be offloaded onto the thing I
bought. And then nobody else is going to start
a new newspaper, so I can make it like
horrible, treat the labor. I could take the reporters,
make it the older reporters. I can't fire them.
That's not legal, but I can make them go
work in the advertising room until they quit. And
I cannot cut all the coverage. This is what
you got because we live in a, in monopoly.
Nobody's enforcing anti-monopoly laws.
And shout out to philosopher Angela Black for pointing
this out about radio in the 90s. She, she
on social media talked about this, I think, uh,
before Doctorow was in shittification because I remember I
read it, some comment she wrote. I said, man,
remember when radio used to be good?
And she said, Do I think that likeification. He
thinks at some point the thing like. Will die.
I'm not convinced that these things cannot just go
on for zombies forever as long as you can
keep the barrier to entry to competitor gone through
like the the liberal playbook. But so it's, so
it's really strange that if you look at other
industries. That WCW was a thing or that AEW.
What we're seeing is like this is circuses for
the masses funded by billionaires. So like, uh, Ted
Turner could start WCW. The barrier to entry wasn't
too high.
And if you're watching WWE right now, the bread
isn't even that good, right? We're getting our bread
and circuses, and uh Ricardo and John and I
were talking before this. It's a lot of WWE
fans right now at the time of this interview,
which is May 5th, for sorry to, sorry to,
but we're not
getting that much bread. We're getting circuses. Yeah, we're,
we're
getting the circuses, but they're kind of crappy circuses,
and the bread sucks. Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, you, you have to pay too much
for the tickets and so on. I mean, it's
just insane, but anyway, let, let me ask you
about this because I get a, a bit, it's
a bit weird, uh uh I mean, at least
for people who haven't read your book, but why
is it that the stroke of the strong man
as buffoon, er works?
I think this is one of the hardest things,
and we don't, you know, we have sort of
4 tropes that were at WWE that are characteristic
of authoritarianism. And as academics, you know, We're, we're
interested in truth and we want to understand what's
going on. Um, WE, we think that these, these
came in WWE. Trump got them through WWE, but
they also characterize authoritarianism and the global rise of
authoritarianism. It's just Trump was really good at it,
and so was Mr. McMahon. So one is cynicism,
which we talked about like the OK thing. This
is all fake, but I, I, you know, I,
I'll tell you that I'm a con man. And
you're in on the con with me and we're
gonna take these other marks. Everyone can't do that.
That's a pyramid scheme. It, it collapses, but whatever,
people, that's the reality. Uh, THEN there's
sexism we've already talked about, yeah, yeah.
So on the buffoonery, uh, this was the hardest
one that we had a hard time understanding, and
I'll, I'll hand it off to Neil in a
second, um, to talk about Vic Man and, and,
and, and, and Trump, but the, uh, why would
this be effective politically. And I think there's, there's,
it's actually there are multiple reasons, um. And, and
you see it, we, we look at Hitler was
ridiculous, and people made fun of him in very
much the same way that Stephen Colbert made fun
of, uh, makes fun of Trump. Um, SO there's,
there's one aspect that we don't go through the
book so much. Take like, uh, the British Epstein,
Jimmy Seville, right? He weaponized his own weirdness. Yeah,
right. And so, it it, it had two things.
One, he seemed less harmful. People could dismiss what
he was doing, but 2, he could get away
with a lot more, and he could test how
much he could get away with. And so I
think like uh people are exploitative. Tend to have
an ability to. The weirdness is a really powerful
superpower. And if you, if you read about Seville,
like he, he was the British Epstein, like, you
know, just as much. So, um, but also there's,
there's a thing that strong men do. Who are
you gonna believe, me or your own eyes. Or
your lying eyes. So when Trump first came in,
he had Sean Spicer go out and say these
were the biggest crowds forever, right? That's part of
what authoritarians do. It's so Trump, who's like very
feminine, we could talk about that, um, curvy makeup,
cemented comb over, hugging flags, dancing to YMCA. He's
very funny in the way he talks, like, like,
this is ridiculous. There's a little bit of that,
like if that's your strong man, you're gonna believe
a lot of other stuff. Yeah, but also like.
The psychic connection with the strong man. If I
am Isa, I feel humiliated. If I am an
unemployed steel worker, and Bill Clinton comes to town
and tells me I'm gonna succeed because I'll get
low-interest loans to learn to program web pages. That's
a horrific humiliation. You might as well just spit
at me, right? And so I feel humiliated. So
I look at Stephen Colbert making fun of Trump,
and he's my avatar. And so I wish I
had a, Neil and I are thinking about this.
We had a clear theory that tied all these
things together. It's very effective. And so we see
Trump or McMahon doing it when he reinvented himself
as the evil boss. The, the psychic revenge on
the boss is him being humiliated. And so Trump's
kind of seeing this, um, so I don't know.
Do you want to talk about it in WWE?
ARE there any questions?
We've already kind of talked about the WWE aspect.
So a thing I've kind of just realized now
in this conversation that I want to bring up
is there's another important precursor. To the buffoonery of
Trump and McMahon that we haven't talked about, and
that's Louisiana politics own Edwin Edwards, um, which Ricardo
Huey Long before Huey Long before him. So Ricardo,
I know you're from Portugal, so I'm gonna keep
this brief. Uh, IN, in Louisiana, we had a
beloved governor named Edwin Edwards who went to jail
for, uh, I believe bribery and fraud, and, um,
he actually ran against a Republican candidate who was
a member of the Ku Klux Klan. And the
slogan for that election was, vote for the crook,
it's important. Um, BECAUSE it was either a felon
or an outright racist. And I think that part
of Trump's appeal is that he's the honest liar.
He's honest about the fact that he's gonna lie
to you. And we can trust him to lie.
And because we can trust him in that way,
he is therefore more trustworthy than most other politicians,
because at least he's honest about it.
OK, I, I just, I don't know,
John, do you think I'm crazy for finding that
connection? It, it might be the case that I
am. I don't know.
Yeah, I'm sure I could think of like Earl
Long or Huey Long and, and stories.
And they both, they both fit into that story
too, of the, of the, the Honest Liar. And
I wonder if Trump is, his appeals partly drawn
on something that, that, you know, cause in Louisiana,
politics is sports. Uh, Wayne Parent's book, he's a,
a, a professor emeritus at LSU, he talks about
it in his books analyzing Southern or Louisiana politics
is that we view it like a sports game.
And, uh, what's more sporting than pro wrestling.
I mean there's a famous thing where like Earl
had promised a tax cut or something and they
came to him and say, well, what are we
gonna tell these people he said this to him.
He was like, oh, tell him I lied. Yeah,
you know, there's a great book by AJ Liebling
called The Earl of Louisiana about, um, about, about
Earl Long and so, yeah, the, the, they, they,
they both were like, uh, both Long's and Edward
Edwards, you know, and, and, and Edward, you know,
like. He would Edwards in that election, he would
compare himself to Jesus. He would start to, he
would say that, tell them that one arose from
among you and use all this language. The press
gave him, and in front of the Press Club
of Louisiana, he stood up on a chair. He
got a bottle of ketchup. He put it on
his palms, and he rubbed it on his side.
He did this. And like he still got elected
in Roman Catholic Louisiana. Yeah, right, it's wild. There's,
there's, yeah, there's, there's, there's, you know, I don't
know, like Neil and I have like a soft
spot for the Longs and uh, yeah, I know,
like your uncle, your dad,
your
grandfather worked with that. Yeah, my grandpa was the,
was one of the, uh, the local bosses of,
of the Long Democratic Party. My grandpa had a
2nd grade education, was a field hand, but Because
of Long's unionism and stuff like that, Papa got
elected. So, you know, when, when Papa died, the
Long family sent flowers. Edwin Edwards sent flowers. So
apparently they held me when I was a baby
at some point.
So he's from Chanton, Louisiana.
Yeah, I'm, I'm, I'm
as the insane asylum where the Marquis de Sade
was,
was, yeah, I'm from the, I'm from a rural
community called Sherington, which was named after the insane
asylum where the Marquis de Sade was imprisoned after
the French Revolution. Um, BUT you know, like that.
Well, I, I mean, I will have to look
up all of that later. I mean, but, but,
but no, no, no, I was just worried because
we have like 30 more minutes and we've been,
we've been talking, we've been talking a lot and
I, I want to cover at least 3 more
topics and then we also have to schedule our
next interview just to talk
about a pay per view event or something like
watching AEW. Pay per view event and then just
have a talk about it because I think a
lot of the stuff we talk about in the
background of the book, we could, we could really
show people how it's instantiated in current wrestling even
though it's not WWE. I just don't want to
watch. I want
a grand unified theory of wrestle rap, so
that's, well, well, maybe we will have to make
you go through the pain of watching, uh, WWE,
WWE pay per view, yeah, because I mean we're
talking about WWE here. We have to keep it,
uh. Uh, I mean in the, in the, in
the within the topic, so I mean, let, let
me ask you, because there's a 4th trope that
you identify in your book having to do with
authoritarian regimes and uh pro wrestling or WWE more
specifically, that has to do with conspiracy theories. So
what role do they play in politics and in
Donald Trump's politics specifically?
You what's, what's key to conspiracy theory. Is that
Um, but there are true conspiracies like. You know,
like Nixon, probably the Epstein with the, you know,
the Gulf of Tonkin incident, um, the Iran hostages
under Reagan. These were conspiracies. That's not a conspiracy
theory. The conspiracy theory, um, explains a lot of
stuff that bothers you in terms of a tiny
cabal of actors. And, um, you know, the, the
sort of Marxist position is to look at, um,
the, the, the structural conditions in the, in the
economics and politics that lead to bad things. The
sort of like conspiracy theoristists to look at one
person. Now, the hard thing, and Neil and I
argued about this a lot, look, like, how much
power does one person have? Like, Would Amazon still
have existed without Bezos, and there just be another
Bezos? Probably like the a lot led towards monopolization
politically in the United States. So a conspiracy is
like this idea, it's the, the, the, the great
man theory of history. On steroids, right, and there's,
there's a, there's a reason for that that we
go into with, um, probability theory, um, you know,
which, what, what, I won't go on to here
because it, it, it gets a little too, I'm
more interested in what we might, might do about
this, which gets us about the Klein Duhan problem
we could talk about it in our, in our
book. So, so it's, you know, like, like we,
the some of the book like Will Summer's book
on conspiracy on QAnon conspiracy theory. This stuff is
nuts what these people believe. It makes no sense.
Like, there's hundreds of thousands of mole scrutiny. Yeah,
there's, there's, there's mole children living underground who are
tortured and harvested for the adrennochrome that allows people
to live forever, and they're cloned. John Kennedy Jr.
IS going to come back on a certain day,
and all the Democrats are going to be like
be killed, and there are all these predictions that
are supposedly cue drops or someone with a Q
intelligence clearance, they never come to pass. And a
lot of people don't give them up. And when
people follow these conspiracies, especially during COVID. They would
like, like a cult, push away a lot of
their friends, the normal people of their life. So
there's a lot going on here. Fox News is
a problem because like, reliably people have less true
beliefs that are, you know, if you believe that
there were that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass
destruction, people who watch Fox News believe that. If
you believe that human beings don't cause global warming,
Fox News believed that. If you believe that Biden
stole the election, Fox News, so that's part of
it like we're we're in. You know, like, starting
with lies about global warming and things like this,
people became, you know, like, uh, programmed to be,
you know, to, to believe falsehoods. But how do
you get to this theory that there's a, a
small cabal of, of, of insiders, usually Jewish, in
the conspiracy theory, um, anti-Semitism will crop up in
any ideology, um, and who are like controlling everything
and You know, so, so that's, that's what a
conspiracy theory is. Now, one of the things, this
is the most important first thing that, um, oh,
I forgot, I just named the author. I named
him earlier who wrote this book on Will Summers,
great journalist. Will Summers, yeah, the people he interviewed
in QAO, the whole thing is around like. The
cabal to abuse and torture children, right now, the
weird thing is like that actually existed with Jimmy
Saville. That actually existed with Jeff Epstein. Most of
them weren't concerned about that. It's this weird thing
with like a pizza restaurant in the basement that
doesn't exist.
They weren't concerned and they're still not concerned, at
least some of them.
They, yeah, it's, it's split down with Epstein. They've
lost some of the people because Epstein just was
from central casting for a conspiracy. But what Will
Summer realizes is that Almost without fail, the women
he talked to that were pulled in conspiracy theories,
and the men, one of two things happened. And
they're Americans. They were crushed by medical debt because
we don't have socialized medicine in the United States.
And if you get cancer and your insurance company
screws you over, like our dear friend Helen De
Cruz, who, who died and medicated, um, recently, um,
you know, some of these people that aren't covered
or they don't have insurance coverage or aren't, they
get debt, and it's very hard to discharge that
debt under bankruptcy. Thank you, Joe Biden because he
made bankruptcy harder to, to get uh with student
loan debt. So that's one thing. The other thing
was they were victims of sexual abuse as children,
but the sexual abuse was always, um, there was
never a shadowy cabal. It was almost in every
case, either at church or family friends or family
members. That's a very hard thing to face if
your husband or your boyfriend, so about this is,
this is horrific, but about one in 20 men,
uh, sexually assault women. The average number of women
they assault are 5 women, right? That's. That's a
plurality of voters right there, that could shift in
the election. But also the people in their lives
that have to live with them and convince themselves
these are good people, there's tremendous cognitive dissonance dealing
with that kind of trauma when you're stuck in
a society where the church is doing this, or
you're homeschooled, and the homeschooling is to keep anyone
adult from seeing the abuse that you're suffering. Yeah.
Lots of people escape it, but lots of people
don't. They stay in those societies. And what Will
Sommer found is the ubiquity of, of badly handled
sexual abuse in the United States, and the ubiquity
of medical debt. The way people, these were the
people who are the biggest victims of conspiracy theories
that tells you a made up story that explains
your suffering, because you can't face the real cause
of it, and the real causes that are structural.
You know, uh, neoliberalism, what we've, you know, privatizing
medicine, you know, so conspiracies served to some extent,
uh, of, you know, a, a, a, a ruling
class to keep people from facing their own bases.
Now, how does this tie to WWE? The storylines
under, under the attitude, we go into a long
one, we won't go into here, where it's, it's
like, A year at least where you finally end
up that like it's McMahon takes off the list
and he's been behind all the all the time,
the higher power, the higher power storyline. So, so,
um,
that storyline was in 1999,
1999. It was, yeah,
but Trump was constantly the people around Trump they're
constantly. You know, it's, and it's very interesting because
Marjorie Taylor Greene was probably. The most, you know,
cheesebrained on QAnon, um, person in the American life,
she has, to her immense credit, she has turned
on Trump over the the Epstein cover-up. So, you
know, don't, you know, a lot of Dems like
we can't talk to her or whatever, like, come
on, have some respect. That was immensely difficult for
her. She had to like turn away from like
tons of people in her life, uh, to do
this, so. Um, BUT, but Trump was really skilled
and the people around him at like not going
all in for the cue on but saying things
that were coded to keep them along, then it
would go to the queue drops. People around him
were really aware of this and, and doing this.
And so part of that support was conspiracism. He
wasn't as explicit. I don't know. I mean, um.
You know, I, I don't know if Salazar, Franco
or Hitler, these kinds of dictators, um, I, I,
I should know Salazar more than we're talking about
Portuguese, and I'm really interested with you if like
the living memory of that maybe inoculates the Portuguese
against some of these things or the Spanish or
the Germans. Um, PART of the problem is though,
there's a theory that every 70 years society gets
stupid because nobody remembers the previous trauma. Nobody was
alive for the previous trauma. And that's why you
get like really dumb foreign policy 70 years after
a bad war. So, so, but like Hitler, like,
yeah, you, it's anti-Semitism, you're blaming the Jews. It's
a small cabal. And so, um, um, anyway, this,
this seems to be a way. Uh, I'll try
to keep this quick, but like, uh, When, when
it's harder to extract profits, what do you do?
If you're an empire, you do Foco's pendulum. You
extract the profits from your own people, and they
don't get the, the wage from vampire anymore. That's
what neoliberalism was. All the stuff we did after
World War II coming home. That's the theory, one
theory of neoliberalism. Um, AND so, You know, but,
but when, when people are getting poorer. The liberals
have a choice, because the liberals are committed to
two things historically, one, absolute negative liberties, freedom of
speech, freedom of thought. But also they're committed to
continued capital accumulation, accumulation of profits. When those two
things fight each other. So for social stabilities, liberals
will make a deal with the left. That's what
Franklin Delano Roosevelt did in the United States with,
with Wallace as his vice president, and we avoided
fascism because the liberals and the left worked together.
It was different in Austria. Dolphus, I forget his
name, the Austrian, oh God, president, prime minister. He
put artillery on two blocks of Vienna. To defeat
the left Right? And then the Nazis come and
kill him. And that's a mistake liberals always make,
that when, when profits go down, they've got a
choice between continued profit accumulation or commitment to negative
liberties. You can't have negative liberties without positive liberties.
There's great philosophers on this critiquing libertarianism, but they
will give up positive rights. So Roosevelt, the four
freedoms, one of those was freedom from want. Right.
And there's pictures of this. Look up Roosevelt's four
freedoms, but freedom from all was smart. He was
a liberal, but he brought. He redefined a positive
liberty, a positive right as a negative right. It's
freedom from want. So liberals had to support the
left under Roosevelt, and we had a New Deal
that that kept us from going fascist or communist.
Churchill actually did some similar things weirdly in England,
the, the, the, the empire. So, um, so as
a liberal, you go with the, you, you give
up your commitment to negative liberties and then you
support fascists to keep extracting profits. And how do
you do that? How do you convince people to
do that? Conspiracism is part of once it's become
fascist. The communists did it too, um, you know,
the doctor's plot and things like this. Um, CONSPIRACISM
is a really effective way to misdirect people, to
give them the psychic wage of apartheid. You may
be poor, but somebody's poorer than you, and by
a hierarchical system, you're higher than them, you know,
that's so conspiracism has this gross history in, in
preventing hierarchy and, and fascism. And that just is
the history, and QAnon is part of that history
and it's part of Trump coming to power. And
what's amazing is McMahon saw this in terms of
entertainment. Trump saw politics as entertainment. Where the psychic
payoff is punishing those you hate. But what McGahn
did with conspiracism, I, we think that that trained
Trump to like, be smart about weaponizing QAnon for,
for his own voting base. Mhm.
Yeah. A, a good thing though is it does
reveal a possibility going forward of counter narratives. Like
if we can find positive counter narratives, um, I
think that's, you know, that's what FDR did that
you just talked about, um, and I think that
the resistance right now in American politics from, uh,
centrists and establishment liberals is really kind of terrifying.
We, We actually just had our first centrist attempted
assassin at the White House Correspondents' Dinner, and I
think one of the dangers of the current path
that
the no, the third, all three of them who
tried to kill none that are trying to assassinate.
Yes,
yes, but if you listen to people on the
news and On YouTube commenting on that from, from
the right, they all say, oh, it was
the radical, the radical people. They're just, they're cheese
brained liberals. I mean
it's the, the, if you're a liberal and you
reject the left wing analysis of structural, uh, of
like structural or systemic inequality, all you have left
is orange man bad. And if orange man is
mad, that's the only, the only thing you have
to do is, is they would think, I'm not
endorsing this. The only thing that, uh, an orange
man bad believer really believes has to happen is
you beat the bad people. If you get rid
of the bad people, everything will be good. You
know, leftists understand that, you know, that is not
the case. But it scares me that, you know,
if this retrenchment of centrism and, and the sort
of neoliberal consultant class is, I, I worry that
we're gonna keep seeing. Political violence because they do
not have a narrative that explains things for why,
why things are the way they are,
or a much more competent Trump at, at doing
the autocracy, you know, like, like it's a stormer
in England is, it's, it's grotesque. Like, uh, the
first thing they, they ran saying they were going
to be left and it was going to be
better. The first thing they do is fire a
bunch of MPs who are trying to vote. Um,
THE, the Conservatives have a policy, you only got
social welfare benefits in, in Britain for your first
two kids. So some Labour MPs felt like we're
gonna, we're gonna, we're we're not gonna do like
uh Tony Blair stuff. Let's do this. They fired
those MPs, right? And then they raised heating bills.
Like nobody voted for autograph for like,
you know, like talk about not reading the room,
right? That's like,
and then, and then now they're trying to like,
what are they doing? They, they're trying to co-opt
the right on cultural narratives, right? It's so like
this is what the what liberals that have no
connection or or who was the Epstein guy that
was the um um he was he was the
British ambassador to the United States under Stormer.
Oh, that guy, yeah, yeah, yeah, I don't remember
his name,
but anyway, he, he was like their Rahm Emanuel,
the enforcer. I, I think the end the thick
of it was based on him, the, the, yes,
I believe it was Doctor Who guy who's, um,
so, so like, um, you know, like, and and
Farage has a really good chance of winning now.
It's like, so I don't think this is going
to happen in the United States, but that is
a script that we want to be, you know,
that, that I, I, I think a Kamala presidency
would have been a stormer presidency. Oh yeah, and
something even more terrifying, you know. And
I'm, I've lost a lot of liberal friends because
they're, they're irate that I don't they
hate you on YouTube, on Facebook, Neil, they hate
you so much.
Oh yeah, on, on, um, they hate that I
don't blame Republicans for what's going on because they're
doing what they were elected to do. I don't
like it. I think it's evil, but I'm very
angry at. The people that are supposed to be
opposing this who do not have a countervailing narrative,
uh, that can meet the moment we are in.
So, so let, let's talk philosophically about a narrative.
What a narrative because so the consulting class is
always about framing rhetoric, and this is the George
Lakoff, who's an impressive linguist. His theory of metaphor
is great, but like, oh, you just need a
better story. And, um, you know, there, there is,
there is a big fight in the, in the,
in the DNC, the Democratic Party about this right
now. So I think it could go either way.
But like a week, so. It's, you cannot if
you have like a, a, a family member who
watches a lot of Fox News that you cannot
convince them, you can't say like, no, that's factually
false, and I'll tell you why that's factually false.
You can't do that to a Q one person.
It doesn't work. Um, THE best thing you can
do is sort of listen to them. Sometimes they
find out that you don't, there's an assumption that
of of the dualism that you must love Biden
because you're sometimes they'll listen to you and you
could critique the left or the liberals too, but
We taught, we tie this to a problem in
analytic philosophy just like our, our, our account of
the fans and the match, the apology of wrestling
comes up of analytic philosophy and analytic philosophy and
epistemology, there's a thing called the coin do have
problem, and this is simply, you know, in, in
science itself, the simplified theory is like, oh, we
test the hypothesis, and then the, the experiment tells
us whether it's true or false. Well, that almost
never happens because, um, you can't just test a
hypo you can't test like a scientific law equals
mc squared. You have to have. A bunch of
other physical theory explaining how the experiment works, and
a bunch of auxiliary hypotheses. You need a bunch
of simplifying assumptions to make the math doable. You
have to cancel infinities and things like that. Um,
YOU have to see what the tolerance is for,
for vagueness, like, um, and then you have to
assume the experiment like blocked out the other forces.
But any one of those. Hundreds of thousands of
things could have gone wrong besides the thing you're
actually testing. So that's why science is falsifiable, but
it's hard. But you only falsify a bunch of
assumptions. It's never really clear what those assumptions are
because experimental work isn't the same thing as a
logic program, right? So the client do process, if
you want to hold on to something bad enough,
you can always just say something else went wrong
and keep holding back. And what Neil and I
realized is that conspiracy theorists do that. We realized
talking to our own family members who we love,
you know, who tell us like, oh, all these
cops are touching fentanyl and like dying, and like,
we'll try to explain the chemistry. We have colleagues
who work with these things, you know, like, uh,
in the vet school, um, you can't, so. How,
how do you, uh, respond to the Quan Duhan
problem and what we argue and what we look
at with, uh, um, memorial, uh, stories in wrestling
that actually did change the material conditions for the
wrestlers for the better. Like, a better story isn't
the story that's Keeps everything you wanted and like
um has better rhetoric. A better story needs to
be more true. You have to make sense of
a story being more or less true than the
other. You can do that philosophically. It should be
beautiful and it should be good. It should have,
uh, um, it should have an explanation of what's
went wrong that's plausible and true and a horizon
of something that's better. The Democrats I shouldn't say
this as an academic. I mean, I'm an academic.
I study this stuff. The Democratic Party has no
picture of the future in this country. None. The
Labour in England has no picture. Carney in Canada
has no picture of the future. He's talking about
building data centers and AI. Like, what are you
doing? There's no model of the future. He said
we're going to save you from the orange bad
man. That's not gonna work. We're gonna have to
water it with some consultants in Tulsa to do
that. So
what little they talk about is wildly unpopular.
Yeah, so, so, you know, I, there, there's structural
reasons they're doing this. There's interested reasons. It's a
whole class. Um, I don't know. There's, but the
way to fight. The way to address the Qua
Duan party. You have to have a better theory.
So why did special relativity replace Newtonian mechanics? Special
relativity got everything Newtonio McKennis got right, but it
also gets right the orbit of Mercury and the
things that it got wrong. That's, that's complicated in
science. It, it has to special relativity reduces in
a limit of like the, I forget that you
can do this a couple of it's to, to
infinity, and then if you reduce those to infinity,
you get Newtonian mechanics. There's, there's formal things. This
isn't rigorous and formal like that because politics isn't,
uh, a theory that can be represented mathematically. Um,
BUT we think the lesson holds, you know, you,
you, you need to have a story that, that,
that it is true, good, and beautiful. And um
and. We think in wrestling that did happen um
in a way that Vince didn't want to happen,
but he had to let it happen after the
death of, um, well, there were 3 deaths. You,
you saw one of them on my pay per
view, Owen Hartz, Eddie Guerrero's, and then Chris Benoit,
which initially was a home invasion where they all
killed and they realized it was a murder-suicide that
lasted over 6 days.
In the middle of the tribute show to Chris
Benoit, where they were airing his matches, they figure
out that Chris Benoit was the murderer. You can
see the exact moment on that show when they
figure it out, and it's when William Riegel is
talking, and all of a sudden he's the first
talking head. That is serious, somber, and sad, but
the others were talking about how much he meant
to him. Like, all of a sudden Regal is
on TV talking about the child, the children, the
wife, and he barely mentions his friend, and it's
like,
I, I mean they, they really made a mess
of that also because, I mean, not only because
of how they dealt with the tragedy itself, but
also even. If you only care about the wrestling,
they even completely ruined that storyline where Vince McMahon
apparently died and then he was back on Monday
night actually
called him to find out if he was really
dead, by the way.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, no, I know that. I know
that. But, but they scared, you know, it was
a little bit of a misperception though, because, um,
the, the, you know, the, the, the use of
steroids, human growth hormones, and drugs of, of Benoit.
But his finisher was like jumping off the rope
and then headbutting somebody
on the diving swan dive headbutt was what they
called it.
The brain results from his autopsy, like his brain
was really shrunk in like areas you need.
I mean that was probably also the result of
CTE. As I was referring to earlier, so yes,
I, I think certainly, certainly if you, we've looked
at that, but he had the brain of they
did, they did have the health policy with, with,
uh, steroids, and like within a month, the bodies
changed. They were, they were smooth. There was no
the backne that sits and pebbles in the back,
um, and the wrestling got better because they can
move their bodies more, um, but also they. They're
going back on this a little bit. They, they
banned some of the head injuries, like, you know,
get, get a hit on the head with the
head with a chair, so they were aware it
was CTE. So Um, but part of it was
like Guerrero's death. Guerrero had, had went to rehab
and come back and got clean. He was
the success story of wrestling. He was the,
yeah, it, it was when he came back was
when he had that amazing feud with Brock Lesnar,
right? The latter, and he had the latter match
with Rob Van Damme. That was one of the
best matches in WWEA history.
Fantastic. But, but then when he died, like, like.
The, the salvation story that we were telling about
Guerrero, you couldn't tell it anymore because it still
killed him. His heart was too big for the
human growth hormone. He died of a broken heart,
yeah, but they, they sort of like didn't do
much after that. But then during Guerrero's, um, so
in the memorial shows everyone breaks Kfabe, um, Rey
Mysterio takes his mask off. He didn't show his
face, and like, but the, the most compelling performance
of authenticity was Chris Benoit, and Neil and I
watched it in his apartment. And like um we
had tears in our eyes because Benoit just started
weeping uncontrollably. He couldn't speak.
It was like ancient Greek like keening, um, horrifying
was a great wrestler too. And so like somehow
that like diverted it or did, you know, whatever,
and Benoit had been his, his, his road partner.
They slept in the same hotel rooms. And then
Benoit does this, and then like the whole thing
is broken and what we got out of the
memorial show from Guerrero was broken. At that point,
like, they could not tell a better story because,
because what Neil Cafe does is you take things
from the real world, um, and you, you, you
put them in the inconsistently put them in the
story and keep fictionalized, but they couldn't, so you
use that to make the story better, use the
world to make the story better, but sometimes the
story puts normative constraint. To make the real world
better, The Fireside chats at FDR did that in
the United States, for example. So the story that
WWEE, the only story they could tell at that
point to Um, where you could say like Eddie's
death was for something and Benoit is not going
to happen again or, or it won't be their
fault if it happens again was finally for the
first time again Pen almost went to federal prison
for this, for basically forcing the wrestlers to take
steroids, finally having a health policy where the wrestlers
won't rest they're too, they, they test them for
steroids and then in doing that they have to
make the work rate less so you're not just
killing them with like constant injuries. And so that
for us, our analysis of Kwandu have been stories
and narrative, we think from wrestling we can get
a little bit of hope for the political moment
of what don't repeat what Starmer and Labor's doing
that's going to lead to Farage, Farage, I forget
the. Um, DEFEATED the fascist guy Farage, Farage in
England, Farage, um, you know, yeah, there are other
possibilities, and if we're going to follow something in
wrestling, let's follow that, you know, like, and I
think Memorial has a You know, we do
end, we do end with probably the greatest single
episode of television in wrestling ever, which was the
Brodie Lee tribute that AEW did, um, which, you
know, like, if you want to talk about the
beautiful, the true, and the good, basically, for people
that don't know, a wrestler died unexpectedly, uh, of
lung complications, and was that during COVID? This was
during COVID, but it was not from COVID. It
was, uh, but there's so much about COVID we
don't the long stuff regardless, they were gonna do
the tribute show and Tony Kahn, the owner of
AEW, is a former board poster. We, I posted
on the same boards as him in the, in
the 2000s and 1990s, so I, I, that's my
connection to the owner of a wrestling company, and
he did an interview with Dave Meltzer before the
show. He said, look, I, at about 3 in
the morning, all of a sudden I just couldn't
handle it, and he ripped up the show he
wrote. And decided he was gonna write a wrestling
show to make Brodie Lee's son, Brodie Lee Junior
smile. And that was the content of the show.
It was a celebration of this kid's dad, with
all the people that were allied with his dad
being baby faces for the night, being the good
guys, and it was all done to give this
kid closure for his dad's death. And they paid
the money.
And it'd be so easy to never go away
that's horrible. They're monetizing the kid. It's not that
when you watch it. It's, it's,
it's not bad when you watch it. And in
fact they, they spend like Tony Kahn says on
there, he said, I spent the money needed. So
that if someone watches this show on streaming in
90 years, they will hear the correct music and
see the correct video because it's important to us
that this memorial work. And, uh, you know, like,
I, you can't watch it without crying. Uh, I
even I, I, I think it's also, it served
as a, as a public affirmation of the different
social contract that AEW has with it. Fans, so
you, you, when you watch that, you contrast it
to the memorial shows and the fakery of a
lot of the WWE memorial shows, but you also,
you're, you're contrasting the, um, the material conditions of
the wrestlers with the WWE wrestlers, and, and I,
I, I, I don't know if we said this
when Owen Hart fell to his death. Neil saw
that live
on. I was watching that pay per view. It
was the day after I graduated from high school.
Owen Hart was my. Favorite wrestler in my adolescence,
him and Shawn Michaels. Uh, I liked the heels,
and I watched my, my, my favorite wrestler die
the day after I graduated from high school. Oh,
so,
so, so you watched Over the Edge 1999 live.
My first pay per view that I watched in
two years because I went to boarding school, so
I didn't have the ability to watch pay per
view there because we weren't allowed to have, to
have cable and TVs. So I just, it was
the day after I graduated high school. I was
like, I'm bored. I'll watch this thing. And yeah,
I saw Owen Hart die. All of the, all
of my friends at the time, because, you know,
we were all teenagers. It was a very, we
all thought it was very symbolic that my childhood
hero died the day I graduated from high school.
So, uh, shout out to my friends, you know,
I, I forget that out. Harold Bloom talks about
the anxiety of influence. So every artist is sort
of like wrestling with their, um, influences. And I,
I think like memorial shows, like everyone crafting the
memorial show has seen all the other memorial shows.
Oh
yeah, like the, I, I remember from the Owen
Hart show Mark Henry wrote a poem. And it
was not a, it was not what a literature
professor would consider a good poem, but it was
utterly sincere, and you can't listen to this man
recite this poem he wrote about his dead friend
without, I, I couldn't,
that's still WWE monetizing, yes, their own horribleness, you
know, they, they monetized the death of their own
wrestler. I, I mean, I mean the fact that
more after Chris Benoit, it just, it just broke,
and so they had to change something.
The, the fact that. The fact that back then
Vince McMahon decided that the show should go on,
I mean, it was just. I mean, I mean,
JR was almost in tears. Jerry Lawler was almost
in tears. Jeff Jarrett, Debra
crying in a match while this happened, like utterly
crying in a match. Uh, HEY, is that Coco?
Coco Oh,
OK, OK. So look, let me just ask you
because I think that we've run out of time.
Here, right? So
I do have, it is finals week at rambling,
so I do have to quickly eat before students
come in and start begging for better grades.
OK, OK, so look guys, let's wrap up the
conversation here. We definitely have to schedule another one
at least. So let me just say that the
book is again KFib Nation Professional Wrestling, Donald Trump
and the New Cynicism, and I will of course
leave a link to it in the description of
the interview.
You can download it for free.
Yeah, yeah, no, I, I, yeah, I will leave
the, uh,
that link. Please, if you're at all interested, download
it for free. It's a free ebook. You only
have to pay if you want a print copy.
Yeah, OK, so look, uh, Dr. Herbert and Dr.
Cockburn, thank you so much for coming on the
show. It's been a fantastic conversation. I really loved
it. It's been so much fun. And look, we
have to schedule a conversation just to talk freely
about wrestling.
Yeah, that would be awesome.
And you know, if you ever need to talk
about philosophy and Dungeons and Dragons, uh, John and
I have published on that as well, and I'm
a D&D streamer. So, you know, like, uh, people
are, you ever wanna have a conversation about tabletop
roleplaying games, we might, we might have to revisit
that topic too.
But let's do the wrestling. We got, we got,
we, we gotta do wrestling. Yes,
we gotta do the
art of wrestling for
sure. OK, so thank you so much again. Absolutely
it's great meeting you. Thank you. It was awesome.
Bye.
Hi guys, thank you for watching this interview until
the end. If you liked it, please share it,
leave a like and hit the subscription button. The
show is brought to you by Enlights Learning and
Development done differently. Check their website at enlights.com and
also please consider supporting the show on Patreon or
PayPal. I would also like to give a huge
thank you to my main patrons and PayPal supporters,
Perergo Larsson, Jerry Muller, Frederick Sundo, Bernard Seyaz Olaf,
Alex, Adam Cassel, Matthew Whittingbird, Arnaud Wolff, Tim Hollis,
Eric Elena, John Connors, Philip Forrest Connolly. Then Dmitri
Robert Windegerru Inai Zu Mark Nevs, Colin Holbrookfield, Governor,
Michel Stormir, Samuel Andrea, Francis Forti Agnun, Svergoo, and
Hal Herzognon, Michel Jonathan Labran, John Yardston, and Samuel
Curric Hines, Mark Smith, John Ware, Tom Hammel, Sardusran,
David Sloan Wilson, Yasilla Dezaraujo Romain Roach, Diego Londono
Correa. Yannik Puntervan Ruzmani, Charlotte Blis Nicole Barbaro, Adam
Hunt, Pavlostazevski, Alekbaka, Madison, Gary G. Alman, Semov, Zal
Adrian Yei Poltontin, John Barboza, Julian Price, Edward Hall,
Edin Bronner, Douglas Fry, Franco Bartolatti, Gabriel P Scortez
or Suliliski, Scott Zachary Fish, Tim Duffy, Sony Smith,
and Wisman. Daniel Friedman, William Buckner, Paul Georg Jarno,
Luke Lovai, Georgios Theophanus, Chris Williamson, Peter Wolozin, David
Williams, Di Acosta, Anton Ericsson, Charles Murray, Alex Shaw,
Marie Martinez, Coralli Chevalier, Bangalore atheists, Larry D. Lee
Junior. Old Eringbon. Esterri, Michael Bailey, then Spurber, Robert
Grassy, Zigoren, Jeff McMahon, Jake Zul, Barnabas Raddix, Mark
Kempel, Thomas Dovner, Luke Neeson, Chris Story, Kimberly Johnson,
Benjamin Galbert, Jessica Nowicki, Linda Brendan, Nicholas Carlson, Ismael
Bensleyman. George Ekoriati, Valentine Steinmann, Per Crawley, Kate Van
Goler, Alexander Obert, Liam Dunaway, BR, Massoud Ali Mohammadi,
Perpendicular, Janaertner, Ursula Guinov, Gregory Hastings, David Pinsov, Sean
Nelson, Mike Levin, and Jos Necht. A special thanks
to my producers Iar Webb, Jim Frank, Lucas Stink,
Tom Vanneden, Bernardine Curtis Dixon, Benedict Mueller, Thomas Trumbull,
Catherine and Patrick Tobin, John Carlo Montenegro, Al Nick
Cortiz, and Nick Golden, and to my executive producers,
Matthew Lavender, Sergio Quadrian, Bogdan Kanis, and Rosie. Thank
you for all.